docs/next/src/pages/examples/materializations.mdx, before:

import { ExampleReferenceLink } from 'components/ExampleReference';

# Assets and Materializations

<ExampleReferenceLink filePath="examples/materializations" />

Dagster solids often produce persistent assets which represent a result of some computation. In
Dagster pipelines, these assets are often by-products or side-effects of a solid's computation,
distinct from the `Output` returned by a solid. Dagster solids can describe these assets by
yielding an `AssetMaterialization` event and attaching useful metadata.

AssetMaterialization events include an `AssetKey`, which serves as an organizational index across
pipelines and runs. These materialized assets are represented in `dagit` under the `Assets` tab and
cross-reference the pipelines and runs that generate them. This is useful not only for quickly
viewing the status of an asset, but also for better understanding the relationship over time between
the asset and the computation that created it.

This example sets up a pipeline that materializes an asset annotated with metadata, and builds that
asset view in `dagit`.

Disclaimer: The `Assets` tab on Dagit is only enabled for instances configured with an "asset-aware"
event log storage, such as `PostgresEventLogStorage` and `ConsolidatedSqliteEventLogStorage`. Please
refer to our [deployment documentation](https://docs.dagster.io/deploying/instance) for more
information about configuring your Dagster instance.

```python literalinclude caption=repo.py
file:/materializations/repo.py
startAfter:start_repo_marker_0
endBefore:end_repo_marker_0
```

## Open in a playground

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#EXAMPLE=materializations/https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster)

## Download

```
curl https://codeload.github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tar.gz/master | tar -xz --strip=2 dagster-master/examples/materializations
cd materializations
```

Commit message:

Document how to make an asset show up in the Assets page #3185
Summary:

Test Plan:
todo
Reviewers:
prha, schrockn, max
Subscribers:

docs/next/src/pages/examples/materializations.mdx, after:

import { ExampleReferenceLink } from 'components/ExampleReference';

# Assets and Materializations

<ExampleReferenceLink filePath="examples/materializations" />

Dagster solids often produce persistent assets which represent a result of some computation. In
Dagster pipelines, these assets are often by-products or side-effects of a solid's computation,
distinct from the `Output` returned by a solid. Dagster solids can describe these assets by
yielding an `AssetMaterialization` event and attaching useful metadata.

AssetMaterialization events include an `AssetKey`, which serves as an organizational index across
pipelines and runs. These materialized assets are represented in `dagit` under the `Assets` tab and
cross-reference the pipelines and runs that generate them. This is useful not only for quickly
viewing the status of an asset, but also for better understanding the relationship over time between
the asset and the computation that created it.

This example sets up a pipeline that materializes an asset annotated with metadata, and builds that
asset view in Dagit.

```python literalinclude caption=repo.py
file:/materializations/repo.py
startAfter:start_repo_marker_0
endBefore:end_repo_marker_0
```

## Assets in Dagit

The `Assets` tab in Dagit is only enabled for instances configured with an "asset-aware"
event log storage, such as `PostgresEventLogStorage` and `ConsolidatedSqliteEventLogStorage`. Here
is an example of an asset-aware instance configuration.

```yaml literalinclude caption=dagster.yaml
file:/materializations/dagster.yaml
```

Please refer to our [Instance Documentation](/overview/instances/dagster-instance#instance-configuration-yaml)
for more information about configuring your Dagster instance.

Once the Dagster instance is configured with an asset-aware event log storage, after you run a
pipeline which generates an asset, you'll find the asset listed on the `Assets` tab in Dagit.
![asset-page.png](/assets/images/examples/materializations/asset-page.png)

You can also find the details about it by clicking the asset key of it.
![asset-details.png](/assets/images/examples/materializations/asset-details.png)

## Open in a playground

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#EXAMPLE=materializations/https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster)

## Download

```
curl https://codeload.github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tar.gz/master | tar -xz --strip=2 dagster-master/examples/materializations
cd materializations
```
