docs/next/src/pages/examples/simple_lakehouse.mdx, before:

# Basic Lakehouse
Lakehouse is an experimental API built on top of Dagster's core abstractions that makes it easy to
define computations in terms of the data assets that they produce. In this example, we'll explain
how to use Lakehouse to transform data assets into a core Dagster pipeline.

Assets are designed to handle computations whose results will be used outside of the context of
dagster. This can mean anything from a machine learning model to a database table.
The Asset API provides functionality for defining the dependencies necessary to compute these data
assets.

To illustrate how this works, consider the following example. We have a table of temperature samples
collected in 5 minute increments, and we want to compute the high temperature for each day
represented in the table.

## Data Assets

Using Assets, we can define each of these tables, and also represent how the high temperature table
is computed from the original temperature data.

```python literalinclude caption=assets.py
file:/simple_lakehouse/simple_lakehouse/assets.py
```

`sfo_q2_weather_sample_table` represents our base temperature table. Passing in `"filesystem"` for
the `storage_key` argument indicates that this asset is stored locally. The `path` argument gives
the path to the data asset itself.

`daily_temperature_highs_table` represents our computed asset. We explicitly define the dependency
on the original table by passing `sfo_q2_weather_sample_table` as the value for the `input_deps`
argument.

We want to persist the data to disk using csv files. Then, we need to create an `AssetStorage` to
describe the conversion between pandas dataframes and csv files.

## Storage
```python literalinclude caption=lakehouse_def.py
file:/simple_lakehouse/simple_lakehouse/lakehouse_def.py
```

The `load` function converts inputs to the required format for an asset. Since our base asset will
represent a csv file, and our second asset will be processing a pandas dataframe, `load` will
convert a csv to a dataframe.. Likewise, we want to persist the results of our
second asset as a csv file, so our `save` method converts a pandas dataframe to a csv.

Then, we construct our `Lakehouse`, which delegates conversion and storage between assets by
utilizing the `AssetStorage` we just defined.

## Pipeline

The data assets, combined with the storage for handling conversion between data formats, completely
define a computation graph. As a result, we can use the assets and storage to construct a pipeline.
```python literalinclude caption=pipelines.py
file:/simple_lakehouse/simple_lakehouse/pipelines.py
```

Note that the assets don't have to be provided in order. Lakehouse is able to determine asset
ordering by resolving input asset dependencies.




## Open in a playground

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#EXAMPLE=simple_lakehouse/https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster)

## Download

```
curl https://codeload.github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tar.gz/master | tar -xz --strip=2 dagster-master/examples/simple_lakehouse
cd simple_lakehouse
pip install -e .
```

Commit message:

simple lakehouse example updates
Summary: minor revisions to the copy and code

Test Plan: bk

Reviewers: cdecarolis

Subscribers:

docs/next/src/pages/examples/simple_lakehouse.mdx, after:

# Basic Lakehouse

Lakehouse is set of APIs for defining pipelines that puts "assets", like database tables and ML
models, at the center.

Lakehouse is built on top of Dagster's core abstractions, and is currently an experimental API.

In this example, we'll define some tables and generate a Dagster pipeline that updates them.  We
have a table of temperature samples collected in five-minute increments, and we want to compute a
table of the highest temperatures for each day.

## Data Assets

Here are our asset (aka table) definitions.

```python literalinclude caption=assets.py
file:/simple_lakehouse/simple_lakehouse/assets.py
```

They're pure functions that describe how the asset is derived from parent assets.
They intentionally omit code for storing and retrieving the assets, because that code often varies
across environments - e.g. we might want to store data in a local csv file for easy testing, but
store data a data warehouse in production.

`sfo_q2_weather_sample_table` represents our base temperature table. `"filesystem"` is a name we
have chosen to identify the storage system where this table lives. The `path` argument gives
the path to the data asset itself within that storage system.

`daily_temperature_highs_table` represents our computed asset. We explicitly define the dependency
on the original table by passing `sfo_q2_weather_sample_table` as the value for the `input_deps`
argument.

## Storage
```python literalinclude caption=lakehouse_def.py
file:/simple_lakehouse/simple_lakehouse/lakehouse_def.py
```

We want to persist the data to disk using csv files. Then, we need to create an `AssetStorage` to
describe the conversion between pandas dataframes and csv files.

The `load` function converts inputs to the required format for an asset. Since our base asset will
represent a csv file, and our second asset will be processing a pandas dataframe, `load` will
convert a csv to a dataframe. Likewise, we want to persist the results of our
second asset as a csv file, so our `save` method converts a pandas dataframe to a csv.

Then, we construct our `Lakehouse`, which delegates conversion and storage between assets by
utilizing the `AssetStorage` we just defined.

## Pipeline

The data assets, combined with the storage for handling conversion between data formats, completely
define a computation graph. As a result, we can use the assets and storage to construct a pipeline.
```python literalinclude caption=pipelines.py
file:/simple_lakehouse/simple_lakehouse/pipelines.py
```

Note that the assets don't have to be provided in order. Lakehouse is able to determine asset
ordering by resolving input asset dependencies.

## Open in a playground

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#EXAMPLE=simple_lakehouse/https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster)

## Download

```
curl https://codeload.github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tar.gz/master | tar -xz --strip=2 dagster-master/examples/simple_lakehouse
cd simple_lakehouse
pip install -e .
```
