docs/next/src/pages/_apidocs/index.mdx, before:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="API Docs | Dagster"
  description="These docs aim to cover the entire public surface of the core Dagster APIs, as well as public APIs
from all provided libraries."
/>

# API Docs

These docs aim to cover the entire public surface of the core `dagster` APIs, as well as public APIs
from all provided libraries.

Dagster follows [SemVer](https://semver.org/), and is currently pre-1.0. We attempt to isolate
breaking changes to the public APIs to minor versions (on a roughly 12-week cadence) and will
announce deprecations in Slack and in the release notes to patch versions (on a roughly weekly
cadence).

## Core

APIs from the core `dagster` package, divided roughly by topic:

- [Solids](/_apidocs/solids)
  APIs to define or decorate functions as solids, declare their inputs
  and outputs, compose solids with each other, as well as the
  datatypes that solid execution can return or yield.

- [Pipelines](/_apidocs/pipeline)
  APIs to define pipelines, dependencies and fan-in dependencies
  between solids, and aliased instances of solids.

- [Modes & Resources](/_apidocs/modes-resources)
  APIs to define pipeline modes and resources.

- [Presets](/_apidocs/presets)
  APIs to define configuration presets.

- [Loggers](/_apidocs/loggers)
  APIs to define where logs go.

- [Repositories](/_apidocs/repositories)
  APIs to define collections of pipelines and other definitions that tools
  such as the Dagster CLI or Dagit can load from.

- [Config](/_apidocs/config)
  The types available to describe config schemas.

- [Types](/_apidocs/types)
  Primitive types available for the input and output values of solids,
  and the APIs used to define and test new Dagster types.

- [Dagster CLI](/_apidocs/cli)
  Browse repositories and execute pipelines from the command line

- [Schedules](/_apidocs/schedules)
  APIs to define schedules on which pipelines are run, as well as a
  few built-in defaults.

- [Partitions](/_apidocs/partitions)
  APIs to define partitions of the config space over which pipeline
  runs can be backfilled.

- [Errors](/_apidocs/errors)
  Errors thrown by the Dagster framework.

- [Execution](/_apidocs/execution)
  APIs to execute and test pipelines and individual solids, the
  execution context available to solids, pipeline configuration, the
  default system storages used for intermediates, and the default
  executors available for executing pipelines.

- [Utilities](/_apidocs/utilities)
  Miscellaneous helpers used by Dagster that may be useful to users.

- [Internals](/_apidocs/internals)
  Core internal APIs that are important if you are interested in
  understanding how Dagster works with an eye towards extending it:
  logging, executors, system storage, the Dagster instance & plugin
  machinery, storage, schedulers.

## Libraries

Dagster includes a number of non-core libraries that provide integrations and additional
functionality:

- [Airflow](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_airflow) (`dagster_airflow`) Tools for compiling Dagster
  pipelines to Airflow DAGs, and for ingesting Airflow DAGs to represent them in Dagster.

- [AWS](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_aws) (`dagster_aws`) Dagster integrations for working with
  AWS resources.

- [Azure](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_azure) (`dagster_azure`) Dagster integrations for working
  with Microsoft Azure resources.

- [Celery](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_celery) (`dagster_celery`) Provides an executor built on
  top of the popular [Celery task queue](http:/www.celeryproject.org/), and an executor with support
  for using Celery on Kubernetes.

- [Celery+Docker](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_celery_docker) (`dagster_celery_docker`) Provides an
  executor that lets Celery workers execute in Docker containers.

- [Cron](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_cron) (`dagster_cron`) Provides a simple scheduler
  implementation built on system cron.

- [Dask](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_dask) (`dagster_dask`) Provides an executor built on top of
  [dask.distributed](https:/distributed.dask.org/en/latest/).

- [Flyte](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_flyte) (`dagster_flyte`) (experimental) Provides an
  integration for runninig Dagster pipelines on [Flyte](https://flyte.org/).

- [GCP](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_gcp) (`dagster_gcp`) Dagster integrations for working with
  Google Cloud Platform resources.

- [GE](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_ge) (`dagster_ge`) Dagster integrations for working with
  [Great Expectations](https://greatexpectations.io/) data quality tests.

- [GitHub](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_github) (`dagster_github`) Provides a resource for
  issuing GitHub GraphQL queries and filing GitHub issues from Dagster pipelines.

- [Jupyter](/_apidocs/libraries/dagstermill) (`dagstermill`) Wraps Jupyter notebooks as solids
  for integrated execution within pipeline runs.

- [Kubernetes](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_k8s) (`dagster_k8s`) Provides components for
  deploying Dagster to Kubernetes, along with an experimental Helm chart.

- [PagerDuty](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_pagerduty) (`dagster_pagerduty`) Provides an
  integration for generating PagerDuty events from Dagster solids.

- [Pandas](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_pandas) (`dagster_pandas`) Provides support for using
  pandas DataFrames in Dagster and utilities for performing data validation.

- [Papertrail](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_papertrail) (`dagster_papertrail`) Provides support
  for sending Dagster logs to Papertrail.

- [Postgres](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_postgres) (`dagster_postgres`) Includes implementations
  of run and event log storage built on Postgres.

- [Prometheus](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_prometheus) (`dagster_prometheus`) Provides support
  for sending metrics to Prometheus.

- [Pyspark](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_pyspark) (`dagster_pyspark`) Provides an integration
  with pyspark.

- [Shell](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_shell) (`dagster_shell`) Provides utilities for issuing shell
  commands from Dagster pipelines.

- [Slack](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_slack) (`dagster_slack`) Provides a simple integration
  with Slack.

- [Snowflake](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_snowflake) (`dagster_snowflake`) Provides a resource
  for querying Snowflake from Dagster.

- [Spark](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_spark) (`dagster_spark`) Provides an integration
  for working with Spark in Dagster.

- [SSH / SFTP](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_ssh) (`dagster_ssh`) Provides an integration
  for running commands over SSH and retrieving / posting files via SFTP.

- [Twilio](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_twilio) (`dagster_twilio`) Provides a resource for posting SMS
  messages from solids via Twilio.

Commit message:

Updates API docs sidebar and index list.
Summary:
- Adds dagster_flyte, dagster_ge, and dagster_papertrail to sidebar.
- Adds Hooks to index list.

Test Plan: Render docs website locally && buildkite.

Reviewers: sashank, yuhan, johann

Differential Revision: https://dagster.phacility.com/D4552

docs/next/src/pages/_apidocs/index.mdx, after:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="API Docs | Dagster"
  description="These docs aim to cover the entire public surface of the core Dagster APIs, as well as public APIs
from all provided libraries."
/>

# API Docs

These docs aim to cover the entire public surface of the core `dagster` APIs, as well as public APIs
from all provided libraries.

Dagster follows [SemVer](https://semver.org/), and is currently pre-1.0. We attempt to isolate
breaking changes to the public APIs to minor versions (on a roughly 12-week cadence) and will
announce deprecations in Slack and in the release notes to patch versions (on a roughly weekly
cadence).

## Core

APIs from the core `dagster` package, divided roughly by topic:

- [Solids](/_apidocs/solids)
  APIs to define or decorate functions as solids, declare their inputs
  and outputs, compose solids with each other, as well as the
  datatypes that solid execution can return or yield.

- [Pipelines](/_apidocs/pipeline)
  APIs to define pipelines, dependencies and fan-in dependencies
  between solids, and aliased instances of solids.

- [Modes & Resources](/_apidocs/modes-resources)
  APIs to define pipeline modes and resources.

- [Presets](/_apidocs/presets)
  APIs to define configuration presets.

- [Loggers](/_apidocs/loggers)
  APIs to define where logs go.

- [Repositories](/_apidocs/repositories)
  APIs to define collections of pipelines and other definitions that tools
  such as the Dagster CLI or Dagit can load from.

- [Config](/_apidocs/config)
  The types available to describe config schemas.

- [Types](/_apidocs/types)
  Primitive types available for the input and output values of solids,
  and the APIs used to define and test new Dagster types.

- [Dagster CLI](/_apidocs/cli)
  Browse repositories and execute pipelines from the command line

- [Schedules](/_apidocs/schedules)
  APIs to define schedules on which pipelines are run, as well as a
  few built-in defaults.

- [Partitions](/_apidocs/partitions)
  APIs to define partitions of the config space over which pipeline
  runs can be backfilled.

- [Errors](/_apidocs/errors)
  Errors thrown by the Dagster framework.

- [Execution](/_apidocs/execution)
  APIs to execute and test pipelines and individual solids, the
  execution context available to solids, pipeline configuration, the
  default system storages used for intermediates, and the default
  executors available for executing pipelines.

- [Hooks](/_apidocs/hooks)
  APIs to define Dagster hooks, which can be triggered on specific Dagster events.

- [Utilities](/_apidocs/utilities)
  Miscellaneous helpers used by Dagster that may be useful to users.

- [Internals](/_apidocs/internals)
  Core internal APIs that are important if you are interested in
  understanding how Dagster works with an eye towards extending it:
  logging, executors, system storage, the Dagster instance & plugin
  machinery, storage, schedulers.

## Libraries

Dagster includes a number of non-core libraries that provide integrations and additional
functionality:

- [Airflow](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_airflow) (`dagster_airflow`) Tools for compiling Dagster
  pipelines to Airflow DAGs, and for ingesting Airflow DAGs to represent them in Dagster.

- [AWS](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_aws) (`dagster_aws`) Dagster integrations for working with
  AWS resources.

- [Azure](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_azure) (`dagster_azure`) Dagster integrations for working
  with Microsoft Azure resources.

- [Celery](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_celery) (`dagster_celery`) Provides an executor built on
  top of the popular [Celery task queue](http:/www.celeryproject.org/), and an executor with support
  for using Celery on Kubernetes.

- [Celery+Docker](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_celery_docker) (`dagster_celery_docker`) Provides an
  executor that lets Celery workers execute in Docker containers.

- [Cron](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_cron) (`dagster_cron`) Provides a simple scheduler
  implementation built on system cron.

- [Dask](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_dask) (`dagster_dask`) Provides an executor built on top of
  [dask.distributed](https:/distributed.dask.org/en/latest/).

- [Datadog](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_datadog) (`dagster_datadog`) Provides an integration with
  Datadog, to support publishing metrics to Datadog from within Dagster solids.

- [Databricks](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_databricks) (`dagster_databricks`) Provides solids and
  resources for integrating with Databricks.

- [Flyte](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_flyte) (`dagster_flyte`) (experimental) Provides an
  integration for runninig Dagster pipelines on [Flyte](https://flyte.org/).

- [GCP](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_gcp) (`dagster_gcp`) Dagster integrations for working with
  Google Cloud Platform resources.

- [GE](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_ge) (`dagster_ge`) Dagster integrations for working with
  [Great Expectations](https://greatexpectations.io/) data quality tests.

- [GitHub](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_github) (`dagster_github`) Provides a resource for
  issuing GitHub GraphQL queries and filing GitHub issues from Dagster pipelines.

- [Kubernetes](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_k8s) (`dagster_k8s`) Provides components for
  deploying Dagster to Kubernetes, along with an experimental Helm chart.

- [PagerDuty](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_pagerduty) (`dagster_pagerduty`) Provides an
  integration for generating PagerDuty events from Dagster solids.

- [Pandas](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_pandas) (`dagster_pandas`) Provides support for using
  pandas DataFrames in Dagster and utilities for performing data validation.

- [Papertrail](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_papertrail) (`dagster_papertrail`) Provides support
  for sending Dagster logs to Papertrail.

- [Postgres](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_postgres) (`dagster_postgres`) Includes implementations
  of run and event log storage built on Postgres.

- [Prometheus](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_prometheus) (`dagster_prometheus`) Provides support
  for sending metrics to Prometheus.

- [Pyspark](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_pyspark) (`dagster_pyspark`) Provides an integration
  with pyspark.

- [Shell](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_shell) (`dagster_shell`) Provides utilities for issuing shell
  commands from Dagster pipelines.

- [Slack](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_slack) (`dagster_slack`) Provides a simple integration
  with Slack.

- [Snowflake](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_snowflake) (`dagster_snowflake`) Provides a resource
  for querying Snowflake from Dagster.

- [Spark](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_spark) (`dagster_spark`) Provides an integration
  for working with Spark in Dagster.

- [SSH / SFTP](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_ssh) (`dagster_ssh`) Provides an integration
  for running commands over SSH and retrieving / posting files via SFTP.

- [Twilio](/_apidocs/libraries/dagster_twilio) (`dagster_twilio`) Provides a resource for posting SMS
  messages from solids via Twilio.
