docs/next/src/pages/community/contributing.mdx, before:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Contributing | Dagster"
  description="Contributions are welcome and are greatly appreciated. Here's the contribution guide."
/>

# Contributing

If you are planning to contribute to Dagster, you will first need to set
up a local development environment.

## Environment Setup

1.  Install Python. Python 3.6 or above recommended, but our CI/CD
    pipeline currently tests against up-to-date patch versions of Python
    2.7, 3.5, 3.6, and 3.7. Note that Dagster is a 2/3 compatible
    project: tests must pass against Python 2.7.
2.  Create and activate a virtualenv, using the tool of your choice.
    On macOS you can install `pyenv` with Homebrew:

```bash
brew install pyenv pyenv-virtualenv
```

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbspThen add the following commands to your shell profile:

```bash
eval "$(pyenv init -)"
eval "$(pyenv virtualenv-init -)"
```

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbspand finally create and activate the virtualenev:

```
pyenv install 3.7.4
pyenv virtualenv 3.7.4 dagster37
pyenv activate dagster37
```

3.  Ensure that you have node installed by running _node -v_, and that you have
    [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/) installed. If you are on macOS,
    you can install yarn with Homebrew:

```bash
brew install yarn
```

4.  Clone the Dagster repository to the destination of your choice:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:dagster-io/dagster.git
```

5.  Run `make dev_install` at the root of the repository. This sets up a
    full Dagster developer environment with all modules and runs tests
    that do not require heavy external dependencies such as docker. This
    will take a few minutes. Note that certain sections of the makefile (sanity_check,
    which is part of rebuild_dagit) require POSIX compliant shells and will fail
    on CMD and powershell -- if developing on windows, using something like WSL or git-bash
    is recommended.

```bash
make dev_install
```

6.  Run some tests manually to make sure things are working:

```bash
python -m pytest python_modules/dagster/dagster_tests
```

## Developing Dagster

Some notes on developing in Dagster:

- **Python 2**: We plan to continue supporting Python 2 for some time;
  it is worth testing your changes with Python 2 to ensure
  compatibility. You can use _tox_ for this, from within
  any of the Python packages:

```bash
PYENV=py27 tox
```

- **Black/Pylint**: We use [black](https://github.com/python/black) to
  enforce a consistent code style, along with
  [pylint](https://www.pylint.org/). We test these in our CI/CD
  pipeline.
- **Line Width**: We use a line width of 100.
- **IDE**: We recommend setting up your IDE to format with black on
  save and check pylint, but you can always run `make black` and
  `make pylint` in the root Dagster directory before submitting a pull
  request. If you're also using VS Code, you can see what we're
  using for our `settings.json`
  [here](https://gist.github.com/natekupp/7a17a9df8d2064e5389cc84aa118a896).

## Developing Dagit

For development, run the Dagit GraphQL server on a different port than
the webapp, with any pipeline. For example:

```bash
cd dagster/examples/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial
dagit -p 3333 -f airflow.py
```

Keep this running. Then, in another terminal, run the local development
(autoreloading, etc.) version of the webapp:

```bash
cd dagster/js_modules/dagit
make dev_webapp
```

To run JavaScript tests for the Dagit frontend, you can run:

```bash
cd dagster/js_modules/dagit
yarn test
```

In webapp development it's handy to run `yarn run jest --watch` to have
an interactive test runner.

Some webapp tests use snapshots--auto-generated results to which the
test render tree is compared. Those tests are supposed to break when you
change something.

Check that the change is sensible and run `yarn run jest -u` to update
the snapshot to the new result. You can also update snapshots
interactively when you are in `--watch` mode.

## Developing Docs

To run the Dagster documentation website locally, run the following commands:

```bash
cd docs
yarn --cwd next dev  # Serves the docs website on http://localhost:3001
```

The API documentation is generated from ReStructured Text files (`.rst`), which extracts Python
docstrings from the library files. The `.rst` files can be found in the `docs/sections/api/apidocs`
directory.

If you change any `.rst` files, be sure to run the following command in the `docs` directory:

```bash
make buildnext
```

Commit message:

Update contributing doc for Dagit UI development
Summary:

I've made some changes to our yarn commands and tests recently. Update `contributing.mdx` accordingly.

Test Plan:

None

Reviewers:

bengotow, alangenfeld, dgibson

Subscribers:

docs/next/src/pages/community/contributing.mdx, after:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Contributing | Dagster"
  description="Contributions are welcome and are greatly appreciated. Here's the contribution guide."
/>

# Contributing

If you are planning to contribute to Dagster, you will first need to set
up a local development environment.

## Environment Setup

1.  Install Python. Python 3.6 or above recommended, but our CI/CD
    pipeline currently tests against up-to-date patch versions of Python
    2.7, 3.5, 3.6, and 3.7. Note that Dagster is a 2/3 compatible
    project: tests must pass against Python 2.7.
2.  Create and activate a virtualenv, using the tool of your choice.
    On macOS you can install `pyenv` with Homebrew:

```bash
brew install pyenv pyenv-virtualenv
```

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbspThen add the following commands to your shell profile:

```bash
eval "$(pyenv init -)"
eval "$(pyenv virtualenv-init -)"
```

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbspand finally create and activate the virtualenev:

```
pyenv install 3.7.4
pyenv virtualenv 3.7.4 dagster37
pyenv activate dagster37
```

3.  Ensure that you have node installed by running _node -v_, and that you have
    [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/) installed. If you are on macOS,
    you can install yarn with Homebrew:

```bash
brew install yarn
```

4.  Clone the Dagster repository to the destination of your choice:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:dagster-io/dagster.git
```

5.  Run `make dev_install` at the root of the repository. This sets up a
    full Dagster developer environment with all modules and runs tests
    that do not require heavy external dependencies such as docker. This
    will take a few minutes. Note that certain sections of the makefile (sanity_check,
    which is part of rebuild_dagit) require POSIX compliant shells and will fail
    on CMD and powershell -- if developing on windows, using something like WSL or git-bash
    is recommended.

```bash
make dev_install
```

6.  Run some tests manually to make sure things are working:

```bash
python -m pytest python_modules/dagster/dagster_tests
```

## Developing Dagster

Some notes on developing in Dagster:

- **Python 2**: We plan to continue supporting Python 2 for some time;
  it is worth testing your changes with Python 2 to ensure
  compatibility. You can use _tox_ for this, from within
  any of the Python packages:

```bash
PYENV=py27 tox
```

- **Black/Pylint**: We use [black](https://github.com/python/black) to
  enforce a consistent code style, along with
  [pylint](https://www.pylint.org/). We test these in our CI/CD
  pipeline.
- **Line Width**: We use a line width of 100.
- **IDE**: We recommend setting up your IDE to format with black on
  save and check pylint, but you can always run `make black` and
  `make pylint` in the root Dagster directory before submitting a pull
  request. If you're also using VS Code, you can see what we're
  using for our `settings.json`
  [here](https://gist.github.com/natekupp/7a17a9df8d2064e5389cc84aa118a896).

## Developing Dagit

For development, run the Dagit GraphQL server on a different port than
the webapp, with any pipeline. For example:

```bash
cd dagster/examples/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial
dagit -p 3333 -f airflow.py
```

Keep this running. Then, in another terminal, run the local development
(autoreloading, etc.) version of the webapp:

```bash
cd dagster/js_modules/dagit
make dev_webapp
```

During development, you might find these commands useful. Run them from `dagster/js_modules/dagit`:

- `yarn ts`: Typescript typechecking
- `yarn lint`: Linting with autofix
- `yarn jest`: An interactive Jest test runner that runs only affected tests by default

To run all of them together, run `yarn test`.

## Developing Docs

To run the Dagster documentation website locally, run the following commands:

```bash
cd docs
yarn --cwd next dev  # Serves the docs website on http://localhost:3001
```

The API documentation is generated from ReStructured Text files (`.rst`), which extracts Python
docstrings from the library files. The `.rst` files can be found in the `docs/sections/api/apidocs`
directory.

If you change any `.rst` files, be sure to run the following command in the `docs` directory:

```bash
make buildnext
```
