docs/next/src/pages/overview/repositories-workspaces/workspaces.mdx, before:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';
import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Workspaces | Dagster"
  description="Dagster Workspace is a collection of user-defined repositories and information about where they reside."
/>

# Workspaces

Tools in Dagster ecosystem such as Dagit and the Dagster CLI (we will be focusing on Dagit for this guide)
need to be able to know what user code to load. This process is managed by Dagster _workspaces_. A workspace
is a collection of user-defined repositories and information about where they reside. Currently we
support repositories residing in the same environment as Dagit itself, but we also support repositories
living in separate virtual environments, cleanly separating dependencies from Dagit and each other.
We refer to where a repository lives as a _repository location_.

Currently the only repository location type we support is a python environment. We will be adding
other location types (e.g containers) as the system develops.

## Workspace YAML

The structure of a workspace is encoded in a yaml document. By convention is it named `workspace.yaml`.

The goal of the workspace.yaml is to provide enough information to load all the repositories that the tool
wants to have access to. We support two use cases:

- Loading in the current python environment.
- Loading in a different python environment.

### Loading in the current environment

The user needs to provide the system either a path to the file or the name of an installed python
package where a repository is defined.

If there is only one repository defined in the target package or file it is automatically loaded.

Example yaml for loading a single repository in a file:

```python caption=hello_world_repository.py
from dagster import pipeline, repository, solid

@solid
def hello_world(_):
    pass

@pipeline
def hello_world_pipeline():
    hello_world()

@repository
def hello_world_repository():
    return [hello_world_pipeline]
```

```yaml caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  - python_file: hello_world_repository.py
```

Now if you type `dagit` in that folder it will automatically discover `workspace.yaml` and then
load the repository in the same python environment. However the user code will reside in its own process.
Dagit will not load the user code into its process.

Sometimes you might have more than one repository in scope and you want to specify a specific
one. Our schema supports as well:

```yaml caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  - python_file:
      relative_path: hello_world_repository.py
      attribute: hello_world_repository
```

You can also load from an installed package.

```yaml caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  # works if hello_world_repository is installed by pip
  - python_package: hello_world_repository
```

Similarly you can also specify an attribute:

```yaml caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  - python_package:
      package_name: yourproject.hello_world_repository
      attribute: hello_world_repository
```

And lastly you can load multiple repositories from multiple packages:

```yaml caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  - python_package: team_one
  - python_package: team_two
  - python_file: path/to/team_that_refuses_to_install_packages/repo.py
```

## Loading from an external environment

### Python Environment

It is useful for repositories to have independent environments. A data engineering
team running Spark can have dramatically different dependencies than an ML team
running Tensorflow. Dagster supports this by having its tools communicate with
those user environments over an IPC layer. In order to do this you must configure
your workspace to load the correct repository in the correct virtual environment.

```yaml literalinclude caption=workspace.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/repositories_workspaces/python_environment_example.yaml
```

Note that not only could these be distinct sets of installed dependencies, but they
could also be completely different python versions.

### gRPC Server

Using the built in Dagster gRPC Server, it is possible to interact with repositories that are
completely remote. This allows for complete separation between tools like the Dagster CLI and Dagit
and your repository code.

The Dagster gRPC server needs to have access to your code. This server is responsible for serving
information about your repositories over gRPC. To initialize the server, you need to run
the `dagster api grpc` command and pass it a target.

The target can be either either a python file or python module. The server will automatically find
and load all repositories within the specified target. If you want to manually specify where to find
a single repository within a target, you can use the `attribute` flag.

You also need to specify a host and either a post or socket to run the server on.

```
# Load gRPC Server using python file:
dagster api grpc --python-file /path/to/file.py --host 0.0.0.0 --port 4266
dagster api grpc --python-file /path/to/file.py --host 0.0.0.0 --port /path/to/socket

# Load gRPC Server using python module:
dagster api grpc --module-name my_module_name --host 0.0.0.0 --port 4266
dagster api grpc --module-name my_module_name --host 0.0.0.0 --socket /path/to/socket

# Specify an attribute within the target to load a specific repository:
dagster api grpc --python-file /path/to/file.py --attribute my_repository --host 0.0.0.0 --port 4266
dagster api grpc --module-name my_module_name --attribute my_repository --host 0.0.0.0 --port 4266
```

Then, in your `workspace.yaml`, you can configure a new gRPC server repository location to load from:

```yaml caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  - grpc_server:
      host: localhost
      port: 4266
      location_name: 'my_grpc_server'
```

#### Executing runs against a gRPC Server:

If you are using the <PyObject module="dagster.core.launcher" object="DefaultRunLauncher"/>, which is configured by
default on your <PyObject module="dagster.core.instance" object="DagsterInstance"/>, the run launcher will launch
runs against your hosted gRPC server.

If you have implemented a custom run launcher and would like to host your code using the Dagster
gRPC server, please reach out to us.

Commit message:

Better handling for the case where gRPC server can't load the run being launched
Summary:
Makes a useful error be surfaced to the user when this happens, instead of returning a successful start and then immediately failing.

Also add a doc line to make it clear that we need to be able to load the run from storage.

Test Plan: New BK coverage, simulate failure by setting pipeline_run to Null and then launching in dagit

Reviewers: alangenfeld, max

Differential Revision: https://dagster.phacility.com/D4469

docs/next/src/pages/overview/repositories-workspaces/workspaces.mdx, after:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';
import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Workspaces | Dagster"
  description="Dagster Workspace is a collection of user-defined repositories and information about where they reside."
/>

# Workspaces

Tools in Dagster ecosystem such as Dagit and the Dagster CLI (we will be focusing on Dagit for this guide)
need to be able to know what user code to load. This process is managed by Dagster _workspaces_. A workspace
is a collection of user-defined repositories and information about where they reside. Currently we
support repositories residing in the same environment as Dagit itself, but we also support repositories
living in separate virtual environments, cleanly separating dependencies from Dagit and each other.
We refer to where a repository lives as a _repository location_.

Currently the only repository location type we support is a python environment. We will be adding
other location types (e.g containers) as the system develops.

## Workspace YAML

The structure of a workspace is encoded in a yaml document. By convention is it named `workspace.yaml`.

The goal of the workspace.yaml is to provide enough information to load all the repositories that the tool
wants to have access to. We support two use cases:

- Loading in the current python environment.
- Loading in a different python environment.

### Loading in the current environment

The user needs to provide the system either a path to the file or the name of an installed python
package where a repository is defined.

If there is only one repository defined in the target package or file it is automatically loaded.

Example yaml for loading a single repository in a file:

```python caption=hello_world_repository.py
from dagster import pipeline, repository, solid

@solid
def hello_world(_):
    pass

@pipeline
def hello_world_pipeline():
    hello_world()

@repository
def hello_world_repository():
    return [hello_world_pipeline]
```

```yaml caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  - python_file: hello_world_repository.py
```

Now if you type `dagit` in that folder it will automatically discover `workspace.yaml` and then
load the repository in the same python environment. However the user code will reside in its own process.
Dagit will not load the user code into its process.

Sometimes you might have more than one repository in scope and you want to specify a specific
one. Our schema supports as well:

```yaml caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  - python_file:
      relative_path: hello_world_repository.py
      attribute: hello_world_repository
```

You can also load from an installed package.

```yaml caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  # works if hello_world_repository is installed by pip
  - python_package: hello_world_repository
```

Similarly you can also specify an attribute:

```yaml caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  - python_package:
      package_name: yourproject.hello_world_repository
      attribute: hello_world_repository
```

And lastly you can load multiple repositories from multiple packages:

```yaml caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  - python_package: team_one
  - python_package: team_two
  - python_file: path/to/team_that_refuses_to_install_packages/repo.py
```

## Loading from an external environment

### Python Environment

It is useful for repositories to have independent environments. A data engineering
team running Spark can have dramatically different dependencies than an ML team
running Tensorflow. Dagster supports this by having its tools communicate with
those user environments over an IPC layer. In order to do this you must configure
your workspace to load the correct repository in the correct virtual environment.

```yaml literalinclude caption=workspace.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/repositories_workspaces/python_environment_example.yaml
```

Note that not only could these be distinct sets of installed dependencies, but they
could also be completely different python versions.

### gRPC Server

Using the built in Dagster gRPC Server, it is possible to interact with repositories that are
completely remote. This allows for complete separation between tools like the Dagster CLI and Dagit
and your repository code.

The Dagster gRPC server needs to have access to your code. This server is responsible for serving
information about your repositories over gRPC. To initialize the server, you need to run
the `dagster api grpc` command and pass it a target.

The target can be either either a python file or python module. The server will automatically find
and load all repositories within the specified target. If you want to manually specify where to find
a single repository within a target, you can use the `attribute` flag.

You also need to specify a host and either a post or socket to run the server on.

```
# Load gRPC Server using python file:
dagster api grpc --python-file /path/to/file.py --host 0.0.0.0 --port 4266
dagster api grpc --python-file /path/to/file.py --host 0.0.0.0 --port /path/to/socket

# Load gRPC Server using python module:
dagster api grpc --module-name my_module_name --host 0.0.0.0 --port 4266
dagster api grpc --module-name my_module_name --host 0.0.0.0 --socket /path/to/socket

# Specify an attribute within the target to load a specific repository:
dagster api grpc --python-file /path/to/file.py --attribute my_repository --host 0.0.0.0 --port 4266
dagster api grpc --module-name my_module_name --attribute my_repository --host 0.0.0.0 --port 4266
```

Then, in your `workspace.yaml`, you can configure a new gRPC server repository location to load from:

```yaml caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  - grpc_server:
      host: localhost
      port: 4266
      location_name: 'my_grpc_server'
```

#### Executing runs against a gRPC Server:

If you are using the <PyObject module="dagster.core.launcher" object="DefaultRunLauncher"/>, which is configured by
default on your <PyObject module="dagster.core.instance" object="DagsterInstance"/>, the run launcher will launch
runs against your hosted gRPC server. The gRPC server needs to be able to access your run storage in
order to be able to execute launched runs.

If you have implemented a custom run launcher and would like to host your code using the Dagster
gRPC server, please reach out to us.
