docs/next/src/pages/deploying/k8s_part2.mdx, before:

import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';
import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Deploying on Kubernetes Part 2 | Dagster"
  description="Dagster provides several sophisticated Kubernetesis deployment options."
/>

# Deploying on Kubernetes Part 2

In this section, we will discuss more sophisticated deployment options for the Dagster system in
Kubernetes. We will focus primarily on:

1. The <PyObject module="dagster_k8s" object="K8sScheduler" />, a new scheduler implementation
   built on [Kubernetes CronJob](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/)

2. User Code Deployments, the ability to load repository information from user code images.

## System Diagram for User Code Deployments with K8s-native Scheduler

<!-- https://excalidraw.com/#json=5741885649846272,DNK-soPQM7CA8G7gdCmZpg -->

![k8s_deployment_part2.png](/assets/images/deploying/k8s_deployment_part2.png)

## K8s Scheduler

This section introduces our integration with Kubernetes CronJob to handle scheduling recurring
pipeline runs.

### Motivation:

Previously, the only scheduler option was the Dagster <PyObject
module="dagster_cron.cron_scheduler" object="SystemCronScheduler" />, which is built on top of
crontab. This ran in the Dagit [Deployment](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/),
which meant that users were restricted to only having one [Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/)
in the Dagit Deployment and meant that schedule ticks could be missed if Dagit was unavailable (such as
during deploys).

The motivation for adding the Dagster K8sScheduler implementation is to enable users to have
multiple Dagit Pods in the Deployment without the risk of duplicate pipeline runs or missing pipeline runs.
We increase the robustness of the scheduler by leveraging native Kubernetes objects.

### How to enable:

In order to enable the Dagster K8sScheduler, set `scheduler.k8sEnabled` to `true` in the Helm
[`values.yaml`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/helm/dagster/values.yaml)
file and fill in the other fields in the `scheduler` section.

### How it works:

When a new schedule is turned on, we will create a corresponding Kubernetes CronJob object. When a
schedule is updated, we will find and patch the existing CronJob so that there is no downtime. At
execution time, the Kubernetes CronJob will create a Kubernetes Job specifically to instantiate
the Run Launcher, which in turn creates the Run Coordinator Job. Kubernetes CronJob names are generated by
hashing the schedule properties, so different repositories can create schedules that have the same
schedule name without causing conflicts in Kubernetes.

## K8s User Code Deployments (over gRPC)

In the previous section, we presented a deployment option where Dagit, Run Coordinator, and
Step Job all use the same image. This section introduces the option to use a different Docker
image for each [repository](https://docs.dagster.io/overview/repositories-workspaces/repositories#main) of user code.

### Motivation:

Previously, we deployed the same Docker image for every component which meant that updating user code
meant having to redeploy the entire system. Additionally, this meant that the dependencies of
Dagit/Dagster and the dependencies for every user code repository, were inter-mixed together.

With the new system, changes to user code only requires updating the corresponding user code Deployments
(ie foo and fiz in the diagram above). This means that if a pipeline within `foo` changes, only the
`foo` Deployment needs to updated. This enables Dagit to be a long-standing process that
communicates with the user code Deployments (ie `foo`/ `fiz`) via the gRPC layer to fetch the latest
repository information. This also separates user code from Dagit/Dagster system code, which
increases robustness.

Users can push different Docker images per repository, which allows separate teams within an
organization to manage their own images and reduce inter-dependencies. This also unlocks the ability to
have conflicting dependencies between repositories.

### How to enable:

Configure the user code deployments by setting `userDeployments.enabled` to `true` in the Helm
values.yaml and specify a list of deployments under `userDeployments.deployments`.

### How it works:

This feature operates over gRPC. First, Dagit will communicate with the user code Deployments over
gRPC to populate its UI. Second, the Run Launcher will communicate with the user code Deployments
over gRPC to fetch the most recently deployed Docker image, which will be used to execute the pipeline run.

We store the most recently deployed Docker image in the `DAGSTER_CURRENT_IMAGE` environment variable in
the user code Deployment and is updated at every deploy. It consists of a simple string of the form
`<image_respository>:<image_tag>`. When using the <PyObject module="dagster_celery_k8s" object="CeleryK8sRunLauncher" />,
all steps in the pipeline run will use the same `<image_respository>:<image_tag>`. As such, we
recommend using a unique Docker image tag per user code Deployment to guarantee that each step job in
a given pipeline run uses a Docker image with the same hash.

Commit message:

default to k8s scheduler, update docs
Summary:

Test Plan:bk

Reviewers:

Subscribers:

docs/next/src/pages/deploying/k8s_part2.mdx, after:

import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';
import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Deploying on Kubernetes Part 2 | Dagster"
  description="Dagster provides several sophisticated Kubernetesis deployment options."
/>

# Deploying on Kubernetes Part 2

In this section, we will discuss more sophisticated deployment options for the Dagster system in
Kubernetes. We will focus primarily on:

1. The <PyObject module="dagster_k8s" object="K8sScheduler" />, a new scheduler implementation
   built on [Kubernetes CronJob](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/)

2. User Code Deployments, the ability to load repository information from user code images.

## System Diagram for User Code Deployments with K8s-native Scheduler

<!-- https://excalidraw.com/#json=5741885649846272,DNK-soPQM7CA8G7gdCmZpg -->

![k8s_deployment_part2.png](/assets/images/deploying/k8s_deployment_part2.png)

## K8s Scheduler

This section introduces our integration with Kubernetes CronJob to handle scheduling recurring
pipeline runs.

### Motivation:

Previously, the only scheduler option was the Dagster <PyObject
module="dagster_cron.cron_scheduler" object="SystemCronScheduler" />, which is built on top of
crontab. This ran in the Dagit [Deployment](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/),
which meant that users were restricted to only having one [Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/)
in the Dagit Deployment and meant that schedule ticks could be missed if Dagit was unavailable (such as
during deploys).

The motivation for adding the Dagster K8sScheduler implementation is to enable users to have
multiple Dagit Pods in the Deployment without the risk of duplicate pipeline runs or missing pipeline runs.
We increase the robustness of the scheduler by leveraging native Kubernetes objects.

### How to enable:

The Dagster K8sScheduler is enabled by default. To configure, fill in the `scheduler` section of
the Helm [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/helm/dagster/values.yaml)
file. To use the CronScheduler instead, set `scheduler.k8sEnabled` to `false`. We recommend using
the [`k8s-dagit`](https://hub.docker.com/r/dagster/k8s-dagit) docker image for the scheduler.

### How it works:

When a new schedule is turned on, we will create a corresponding Kubernetes CronJob object. When a
schedule is updated, we will find and patch the existing CronJob so that there is no downtime. At
execution time, the Kubernetes CronJob will create a Kubernetes Job specifically to instantiate
the Run Launcher, which in turn creates the Run Coordinator Job. Kubernetes CronJob names are generated by
hashing the schedule properties, so different repositories can create schedules that have the same
schedule name without causing conflicts in Kubernetes.

## K8s User Code Deployments (over gRPC)

In the previous section, we presented a deployment option where Dagit, Run Coordinator, and
Step Job all use the same image. This section introduces the option to use a different Docker
image for each [repository](https://docs.dagster.io/overview/repositories-workspaces/repositories#main) of user code.

### Motivation:

Previously, we deployed the same Docker image for every component which meant that updating user code
meant having to redeploy the entire system. Additionally, this meant that the dependencies of
Dagit/Dagster and the dependencies for every user code repository, were inter-mixed together.

With the new system, changes to user code only requires updating the corresponding user code Deployments
(ie foo and fiz in the diagram above). This means that if a pipeline within `foo` changes, only the
`foo` Deployment needs to updated. This enables Dagit to be a long-standing process that
communicates with the user code Deployments (ie `foo`/ `fiz`) via the gRPC layer to fetch the latest
repository information. This also separates user code from Dagit/Dagster system code, which
increases robustness.

Users can push different Docker images per repository, which allows separate teams within an
organization to manage their own images and reduce inter-dependencies. This also unlocks the ability to
have conflicting dependencies between repositories.

### How to enable:

Configure the user code deployments by setting `userDeployments.enabled` to `true` in the Helm
values.yaml and specify a list of deployments under `userDeployments.deployments`.

### How it works:

This feature operates over gRPC. First, Dagit will communicate with the user code Deployments over
gRPC to populate its UI. Second, the Run Launcher will communicate with the user code Deployments
over gRPC to fetch the most recently deployed Docker image, which will be used to execute the pipeline run.

We store the most recently deployed Docker image in the `DAGSTER_CURRENT_IMAGE` environment variable in
the user code Deployment and is updated at every deploy. It consists of a simple string of the form
`<image_respository>:<image_tag>`. When using the <PyObject module="dagster_celery_k8s" object="CeleryK8sRunLauncher" />,
all steps in the pipeline run will use the same `<image_respository>:<image_tag>`. As such, we
recommend using a unique Docker image tag per user code Deployment to guarantee that each step job in
a given pipeline run uses a Docker image with the same hash.
