docs/next/src/pages/index.mdx, before:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Dagster — A data orchestrator for machine learning, analytics, and ETL"
  description="Dagster lets you define pipelines in terms of the data flow between reusable, logical components. Implement components in any tool, such as Pandas, Spark, SQL, or DBT. Test locally and run anywhere. Whether you’re an individual data practitioner or building a platform to support diverse teams, Dagster supports your entire dev and deploy cycle with a unified view of data pipelines and assets."
/>

<p align="center">
<img
    className="w-1/2 sm:w-1/3 md:w-1/5 h-auto text-center h-full"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/28738937/44878798-b6e17e00-ac5c-11e8-8d25-2e47e5a53418.png"
/>
</p>

<p align="center" className="mt-6 max-w-md mx-auto text-base text-gray-500 sm:text-lg md:mt-8 md:text-xl md:max-w-2xl">
A data orchestrator for machine learning, analytics, and ETL
</p>

```python literalinclude
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/introduction/intro.py
startAfter: start_intro_0
endBefore: end_intro_0
```

```bash
> dagster pipeline execute -c local_development.yaml sugariest_pipeline
```

## Dagit

Dagster comes with a rich UI for viewing and executing data pipelines.

### Visualize pipeline topology, with data types

<p align="center">
  <img src="/assets/images/intro/dag-with-descrip.png" width="50%" height="50%"/>
</p>

### Execute pipelines and digest what happened as structured logs

<p align="center">
  <img src="/assets/images/intro/execution-log.png" width="75%" height="75%"/>
</p>

### Manage a history of past runs

<p align="center">
  <img src="/assets/images/intro/runs.png"/>
</p>

Commit message:

Reform docs frontpage
Summary:
Our current docs frontpage is basically a worse version of what we have at dagster.io.

This replaces it with an overview of our docs site.

Test Plan: manual inspection

Reviewers: max, sashank, yuhan, schrockn

Subscribers:

docs/next/src/pages/index.mdx, after:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Dagster — A data orchestrator for machine learning, analytics, and ETL"
  description="Dagster lets you define pipelines in terms of the data flow between reusable, logical components. Implement components in any tool, such as Pandas, Spark, SQL, or DBT. Test locally and run anywhere. Whether you’re an individual data practitioner or building a platform to support diverse teams, Dagster supports your entire dev and deploy cycle with a unified view of data pipelines and assets."
/>

<p align="center">
<img
    className="w-1/2 sm:w-1/3 md:w-1/5 h-auto text-center h-full"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/28738937/44878798-b6e17e00-ac5c-11e8-8d25-2e47e5a53418.png"
/>
</p>


## Welcome to Dagster's documentation!

Dagster is a data orchestrator for machine learning, analytics, and ETL

These are the sections of our docs:

### Install

Quick instructions on how to install Dagster.

### Tutorial

An introduction to Dagster main concepts through a set of examples and accompanying explanation.
Start here if you're new to Dagster and want to ramp up.

### Examples

Each page is a code example with accompanying explanation.  Come here to learn how to do specific
things with Dagster, like conditionally execute part of a pipeline or write solids that use PySpark.

### Overviews

Each page in this section is a detailed explanation of a Dagster concept or component. Come here to
deepen your understanding of the system.

### Deploy

A set of references for how to deploy Dagster.

### Community

Our code of conduct, guidelines for contributing, release policy, and links to our Github and Slack.
