docs/next/src/pages/overview/scheduling-partitions/partitions.mdx, before:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';
import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Schedules - Partition Sets | Dagster"
  description="Dagster provides an easy way to partition config for a pipeline."
/>

# Partition Sets

Dagster provides the _partition set_ abstraction to make it easy to partition config for a pipeline.
The most common dimension pipelines are partitioned by is time. Other examples of partitions could be
countries, users, IDs, etc.

## Defining a Partition Set

To define a partition set, we use the <PyObject module="dagster" object="PartitionSetDefinition"/> class.

A partition set targets a pipeline, and must define the two functions:

- `partition_fn`: Returns a list of <PyObject module="dagster" object="Partition"/>.
- `run_config_fn_for_partition`: Given a <PyObject module="dagster" object="Partition"/>, returns the run
  configuration that parameterizes the execution for this partition, as a dict.

### Example

For example, we have a pipeline that computes metrics data for a given day of the week.

```python literalinclude caption=pipeline.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/schedules_partitions/pipeline.py
lineno-start:
lines:4-12
```

The solid `process_data_for_day` takes, as config, a string `day_of_week`. This piece of config will
define which day to compute metrics data for. For example, if we wanted to compute metrics for Monday ("M"),
we would execute the pipeline with the following config:

```python literalinclude caption=config.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/schedules_partitions/config.yaml
```

We can define a <PyObject module="dagster" object="PartitionSetDefinition"/> that defines the full set of
partitions and how to define the run config for a given partition.

```python literalinclude caption=partition_definition.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/schedules_partitions/partition_definition.py
lineno-start:
lines:4-26
```

## Using Partitions in Dagit

You can view and use partitions in the Dagit playground view for a pipeline. In the top bar, you can
select from the list of all available partition sets, then choose a specific partition.
Within the config editor, the config for the selected partition will be populated.

In the screenshot below, we select the `day_partition_set` and the `W` partition, and we can see that
the correct run config for the partition has been populated in the editor.

![Partitions in Dagit Playground](/assets/images/overview/schedules_partitions/partitions-playground.png)

Commit message:

[docs] partition overview intro update
Summary:
I was reading up on partitions because I'm a n00b and found "make it easy to partition config for a pipeline" confusing.  Here's an attempt at making it clearer.

Test Plan: manual inspection

Reviewers: sashank

Subscribers:

docs/next/src/pages/overview/scheduling-partitions/partitions.mdx, after:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';
import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Schedules - Partition Sets | Dagster"
  description="Dagster provides the _partition set_ abstraction for pipelines where each run deals with
    a subset of data."
/>

# Partition Sets

Dagster provides the _partition set_ abstraction for pipelines where each run deals with
a subset of data.

Users define a set of logical "partitions", usually time windows, along with a scheme for building
pipeline config from a partition name.  With this, they can kick off a pipeline run or set of
pipeline runs by simply selecting a partition or set of partitions.

Partitions have two main uses:
- Scheduling - e.g. a pipeline runs each day and processes the data that arrived during the
  previous day as a single partition.
- Backfills - all at once, kick off a pipeline run per partition, e.g. to reprocess the data that
  arrived for each day in the history.


## Defining a Partition Set

To define a partition set, we use the <PyObject module="dagster" object="PartitionSetDefinition"/> class.

A partition set targets a pipeline, and must define the two functions:

- `partition_fn`: Returns a list of <PyObject module="dagster" object="Partition"/>.
- `run_config_fn_for_partition`: Given a <PyObject module="dagster" object="Partition"/>, returns the run
  configuration that parameterizes the execution for this partition, as a dict.

### Example

For example, we have a pipeline that computes metrics data for a given day of the week.

```python literalinclude caption=pipeline.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/schedules_partitions/pipeline.py
lineno-start:
lines:4-12
```

The solid `process_data_for_day` takes, as config, a string `day_of_week`. This piece of config will
define which day to compute metrics data for. For example, if we wanted to compute metrics for Monday ("M"),
we would execute the pipeline with the following config:

```python literalinclude caption=config.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/schedules_partitions/config.yaml
```

We can define a <PyObject module="dagster" object="PartitionSetDefinition"/> that defines the full set of
partitions and how to define the run config for a given partition.

```python literalinclude caption=partition_definition.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/schedules_partitions/partition_definition.py
lineno-start:
lines:4-26
```

## Using Partitions in Dagit

You can view and use partitions in the Dagit playground view for a pipeline. In the top bar, you can
select from the list of all available partition sets, then choose a specific partition.
Within the config editor, the config for the selected partition will be populated.

In the screenshot below, we select the `day_partition_set` and the `W` partition, and we can see that
the correct run config for the partition has been populated in the editor.

![Partitions in Dagit Playground](/assets/images/overview/schedules_partitions/partitions-playground.png)
