docs/next/src/pages/tutorial/advanced_repositories.mdx, before:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';
import { CodeReferenceLink } from 'components/CodeReference';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Advanced: Organizing Pipelines in Repositories &amp; Workspaces | Dagster"
  description="Dagster provides the concept of a repository, a collection of pipelines (and other definitions)
  that the Dagster tools can target as a whole."
/>

import AnchorHeading from 'components/AnchorHeading';
import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';

# Advanced: Organizing Pipelines in Repositories & Workspaces

<CodeReferenceLink filePath="examples/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/advanced/repositories/" />

In all of the examples we've seen so far, we've specified a file (`-f`) or a module (`-m`) in
order to tell the CLI tools how to load a pipeline, e.g.:

```bash
dagit -f hello_cereal.py
dagster pipeline execute -f hello_cereal.py
```

But most of the time, especially when working on long-running projects with other people, we will
want to be able to target many pipelines at once with our tools.

Dagster provides the concept of a repository, a collection of pipelines (and other definitions) that
the Dagster tools can target as a whole. Repositories are declared using the <PyObject
module="dagster" object="RepositoryDefinition" /> API as follows:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=14 caption=repos.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/advanced/repositories/repos.py
lines:14-16
```

This method returns a list of items, each one of which can be a pipeline, a schedule, or a partition set.

## Lazy Construction

Notice that this requires eager construction of all its member definitions. In large codebases,
pipeline construction time can be large. In these cases, it may behoove you to only construct them
on demand. For that, you can also return a dictionary of function references, which are constructed
on demand:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=14 caption=repos.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/advanced/repositories/lazy_repos.py
lines:15-25
```

Note that the name of the pipeline in the `RepositoryDefinition` must match the name we declared for
it in its `pipeline` (the default is the function name). Don't worry, if these names don't match,
you'll see a helpful error message.

## Repositories in Dagit

If you save this file as `repos.py`, you can then run the command line tools on it. Try running:

```bash
dagit -f repos.py
```

Now you can see the list of all pipelines in the repo via the dropdown at the top:

![repos.png](/assets/images/tutorial/repos.png)

## Workspaces

Loading repositories via the `-f` or `-m` options is actually just a convenience function. The
underlying abstraction is the "workspace", which determines all of the available repositories
available to Dagit.

We have a file format for building workspaces called `workspace.yaml`. It is a convenience: it
prevents you from having to type the same `-f` or `-m` flag repeatedly. But as you'll see below it
enables more capabilities.

```YAML literalinclude caption=workspace.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/advanced/repositories/workspace.yaml
```

Dagit will look for workspace.yaml in the current directory by default, so now you can launch Dagit
from that directory with no arguments.

```bash
dagit
```

### Supporting multiple repositories

You can also use `workspace.yaml` to load multiple repositories. This can be useful for organization
purposes, in order to group pipelines and other artifacts by team.

```YAML literalinclude caption=multi_repo_workspace.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/advanced/repositories/multi_repo_workspace.yaml
```

Load it:

```bash
dagit -w multi_repo_workspace.yaml
```

And now you can switch between repositories in Dagit.

### Multi-environment repositories

Sometimes teams desire different Python versions or virtual environments. To support this, Dagster
allows repositories to live in completely separate processes from each other, and tools like Dagit
communicate with those repositories using a cross-process RPC protocol.

Via the workspace, you can configure where to launch repositories. For example:

```YAML literalinclude caption=multi_python_env_workspace_example.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/advanced/repositories/multi_python_env_workspace_example.yaml
```

For this example to work, you need to change the executable path to point a virtual environment
available in your system, and point to a Python module or file that is available and loadable by
that executable.

<br />

<br />

Commit message:

Changes `python_module`to `python_package` in tutorial.
- Note: the `python_module` option is deprecated, and replaced by `python_package` for explicitly pip installed packages.

docs/next/src/pages/tutorial/advanced_repositories.mdx, after:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';
import { CodeReferenceLink } from 'components/CodeReference';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Advanced: Organizing Pipelines in Repositories &amp; Workspaces | Dagster"
  description="Dagster provides the concept of a repository, a collection of pipelines (and other definitions)
  that the Dagster tools can target as a whole."
/>

import AnchorHeading from 'components/AnchorHeading';
import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';

# Advanced: Organizing Pipelines in Repositories & Workspaces

<CodeReferenceLink filePath="examples/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/advanced/repositories/" />

In all of the examples we've seen so far, we've specified a file (`-f`) or a module (`-m`) in
order to tell the CLI tools how to load a pipeline, e.g.:

```bash
dagit -f hello_cereal.py
dagster pipeline execute -f hello_cereal.py
```

But most of the time, especially when working on long-running projects with other people, we will
want to be able to target many pipelines at once with our tools.

Dagster provides the concept of a repository, a collection of pipelines (and other definitions) that
the Dagster tools can target as a whole. Repositories are declared using the <PyObject
module="dagster" object="RepositoryDefinition" /> API as follows:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=14 caption=repos.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/advanced/repositories/repos.py
lines:14-16
```

This method returns a list of items, each one of which can be a pipeline, a schedule, or a partition set.

## Lazy Construction

Notice that this requires eager construction of all its member definitions. In large codebases,
pipeline construction time can be large. In these cases, it may behoove you to only construct them
on demand. For that, you can also return a dictionary of function references, which are constructed
on demand:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=14 caption=repos.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/advanced/repositories/lazy_repos.py
lines:15-25
```

Note that the name of the pipeline in the `RepositoryDefinition` must match the name we declared for
it in its `pipeline` (the default is the function name). Don't worry, if these names don't match,
you'll see a helpful error message.

## Repositories in Dagit

If you save this file as `repos.py`, you can then run the command line tools on it. Try running:

```bash
dagit -f repos.py
```

Now you can see the list of all pipelines in the repo via the dropdown at the top:

![repos.png](/assets/images/tutorial/repos.png)

## Workspaces

Loading repositories via the `-f` or `-m` options is actually just a convenience function. The
underlying abstraction is the "workspace", which determines all of the available repositories
available to Dagit.

We have a file format for building workspaces called `workspace.yaml`. It is a convenience: it
prevents you from having to type the same `-f` or `-m` flag repeatedly. But as you'll see below it
enables more capabilities.

The following config will load pipelines from a file, just like the `-f` CLI option.

```YAML caption=workspace.yaml
load_from:
  - python_file: repos.py
```

Dagit will look for `workspace.yaml` in the current directory by default, so now you can launch
Dagit from that directory with no arguments.

```bash
dagit
```

Use the `python_package` config option to load pipelines from explicitly installed Python packages.
For example, you can `pip install` our tutorial code snippets as a Python package:

```bash
pip install -e docs_snippets  # Run this in the `examples/` directory.
```

Then, you can configure your `workspace.yaml` to load pipelines from this package.

```YAML literalinclude caption=workspace.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/advanced/repositories/workspace.yaml
```

### Supporting multiple repositories

You can also use `workspace.yaml` to load multiple repositories. This can be useful for organization
purposes, in order to group pipelines and other artifacts by team.

```YAML literalinclude caption=multi_repo_workspace.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/advanced/repositories/multi_repo_workspace.yaml
```

Load it:

```bash
dagit -w multi_repo_workspace.yaml
```

And now you can switch between repositories in Dagit.

### Multi-environment repositories

Sometimes teams desire different Python versions or virtual environments. To support this, Dagster
allows repositories to live in completely separate processes from each other, and tools like Dagit
communicate with those repositories using a cross-process RPC protocol.

Via the workspace, you can configure where to launch repositories. For example:

```YAML literalinclude caption=multi_python_env_workspace_example.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/advanced/repositories/multi_python_env_workspace_example.yaml
```

For this example to work, you need to change the executable path to point a virtual environment
available in your system, and point to a Python module or file that is available and loadable by
that executable.

<br />

<br />
