docs/next/src/pages/tutorial/basics_solids.mdx, before:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';
import { CodeReferenceLink } from 'components/CodeReference';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Basics of Solids | Dagster"
  description="The core abstraction of Dagster is the solid, a functional unit of computation.
  Here's a guide to define a solid."
/>

import AnchorHeading from 'components/AnchorHeading';
import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';

# Basics of Solids

<CodeReferenceLink filePath="examples/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/" />

## Parametrizing Solids with Inputs

So far, we've only seen solids whose behavior is the same every time they're run:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=7 emphasize-lines=4 caption=hello_cereal.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e01_first_pipeline/hello_cereal.py
lines:7-20
```

In general, though, rather than relying on hardcoded values like `dataset_path`, we'd like to be
able to parametrize our solid logic. Appropriately parameterized solids are more testable and
reusable. Consider the following more generic solid:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=7 caption=inputs.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/inputs.py
lines:8-15
```

Here, rather than hard-coding the value of `dataset_path`, we use an input, `csv_path`. It's easy to
see why this is better. We can reuse the same solid in all the different places we might need to
read in a CSV from a filepath. We can test the solid by pointing it at some known test CSV file. And
we can use the output of another upstream solid to determine which file to load.

Let's rebuild a pipeline we've seen before, but this time using our newly parameterized solid.

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=2 emphasize-lines=38 caption=inputs.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/inputs.py
startAfter:start_inputs_marker_0
endBefore:end_inputs_marker_0
```

<br />

## Specifying Config for Pipeline Execution

As you can see above, what's missing from this setup is a way to specify the `csv_path` input to our
new `read_csv` solid in the absence of any upstream solids whose outputs we can rely on. Dagster
provides the ability to stub inputs to solids that aren't satisfied by the pipeline topology as part
of its flexible configuration facility.

We can specify config for a pipeline execution regardless of which modality we use to execute the
pipeline — the Python API, the Dagit GUI, or the command line:

<details className="markdown">
  <summary>Specifying config in the Python API</summary>

<br />

We previously encountered the <PyObject module="dagster" object="execute_pipeline"
displayText="execute_pipeline()" />function. Pipeline run config is specified by the second
argument to this function, which must be a dict.

This dict contains all of the user-provided configuration with which to execute a pipeline. As such,
it can have [a lot of sections](/_apidocs/execution), but we'll only use one of
them here: per-solid configuration, which is specified under the key `solids`:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=46 caption=inputs.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/inputs.py
startAfter:start_inputs_marker_1
endBefore:end_inputs_marker_1
dedent:4
```

The `solids` dict is keyed by solid name, and each solid is configured by a dict that may itself
have several sections. In this case we are only interested in the `inputs` section, so that we can
specify the value of the input `csv_path`.

Now you can pass this run config to <PyObject module="dagster" object="execute_pipeline"
displayText="execute_pipeline()" />:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=53 caption=inputs.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/inputs.py
startAfter:start_inputs_marker_2
endBefore:end_inputs_marker_2
dedent:4
```

</details>

<details className="markdown">
  <summary>Specifying config using YAML fragments and the Dagster CLI</summary>

<br />

When executing pipelines with the Dagster CLI, we'll need to provide the run config in a file. We
use YAML for the file-based representation of configuration, but the values are the same as before:

```YAML literalinclude showLines caption=inputs_env.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/inputs_env.yaml
```

We can pass config files in this format to the Dagster CLI tool with the `-c` flag.

```bash
dagster pipeline execute -f inputs.py -c inputs_env.yaml
```

In practice, you might have different sections of your run config in different yaml files&mdash;if,
for instance, some sections change more often (e.g. in test and prod) while other are more static.
In this case, you can set multiple instances of the `-c` flag on CLI invocations, and the CLI tools
will assemble the YAML fragments into a single run config.

</details>

<details className="markdown">
  <summary>Using the Dagit config editor</summary>

<br />

Dagit provides a powerful, schema-aware, typeahead-enabled config editor to enable rapid
experimentation with and debugging of parameterized pipeline executions. As always, run:

```bash
dagit -f inputs.py
```

Notice that no execution plan appears in the bottom pane of the Playground.

![inputs_figure_one.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_one.png)

Because Dagit is schema-aware, it knows that this pipeline now requires configuration in order to
run without errors. In this case, since the pipeline is relatively trivial, it wouldn't be
especially costly to run the pipeline and watch it fail. But when pipelines are complex and slow,
it's invaluable to get this kind of feedback up front rather than have an unexpected failure deep
inside a pipeline.

Recall that the execution plan, which you will ordinarily see above the log viewer in the
**Execute** tab, is the concrete pipeline that Dagster will actually execute. Without a valid
config, Dagster can't construct a parametrization of the logical pipeline&mdash;so no execution plan
is available for us to preview.

Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Space</kbd> in order to bring up the typeahead assistant.

![inputs_figure_two.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_two.png)

Here you can see all of the sections available in the run config. Don't worry, we'll get to them all
later.

Let's enter the config we need in order to execute our pipeline.

![inputs_figure_three.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_three.png)

Note that as you type and edit the config, the config minimap hovering on the right side of the
editor pane changes to provide context&mdash;you always know where in the nested config schema
you are while making changes.

</details>

<br />

## Parametrizing Solids with Config

Solids often depend in predictable ways on features of the external world or the pipeline in which
they're invoked. For example, consider an extended version of our CSV-reading solid that implements
more of the options available in the underlying Python API:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=8 emphasize-lines=9-15 caption=config_bad_1.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/config_bad_1.py
startAfter:start_config_bad_1_marker_0
endBefore:end_config_bad_1_marker_0
```

We obviously don't want to have to write a separate solid for each permutation of these parameters
that we use in our pipelines&mdash;especially because, in more realistic cases like configuring a
Spark job or even parametrizing the `read_csv` function from a popular package like
[Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.read_csv.html#pandas.read_csv),
we might have dozens or hundreds of parameters like these.

But hoisting all of these parameters into the signature of the solid function as inputs isn't the
right answer either:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=8 emphasize-lines=5-11 caption=config_bad_2.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/config_bad_2.py
startAfter:start_config_bad_2_marker_0
endBefore:end_config_bad_2_marker_0
```

Defaults are often sufficient for configuration values like these, and sets of parameters are often
reusable. Moreover, it's unlikely that values like this will be provided dynamically by the outputs
of other solids in a pipeline.

Inputs, on the other hand, will usually be provided by the outputs of other solids in a pipeline,
even though we might sometimes want to stub them using the config facility.

For all these reasons, it's bad practice to mix configuration values like these with true input
values.

The solution is to define a config schema for our solid:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=2 emphasize-lines=17,35-43,90 caption=config.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/config.py
startAfter:start_config_marker_0
endBefore:end_config_marker_0
```

First, we pass the `config` argument to the <PyObject module="dagster" object="solid"
displayText="@solid" /> decorator. This tells Dagster to give our solid a config field structured as
a dictionary, whose keys are the keys of this argument, and the types of whose values are defined by
the values of this argument (instances of <PyObject module="dagster" object="Field" />).

Then, we define one of these fields, `escapechar`, to be a string, setting a default value, making
it optional, and setting a human-readable description.

Finally, inside the body of the solid function, we access the config value set by the user using the
`solid_config` field on the familiar <PyObject module="dagster"
object="SystemComputeExecutionContext" displayText="context" /> object. When Dagster executes our
pipeline, the framework will make validated config for each solid available on this object.

Let's see how all of this looks in Dagit. As usual, run:

```bash
dagit -f config.py
```

![config_figure_one.png](/assets/images/tutorial/config_figure_one.png)

As you may by now expect, Dagit provides a fully type-aware and schema-aware config editing
environment with a typeahead. The human-readable descriptions we provided on our config fields
appear in the config context minimap, as well as in typeahead tooltips and in the Explore pane when
clicking into the individual solid definition.

![config_figure_two.png](/assets/images/tutorial/config_figure_two.png)

You can see that we've added a new section to the solid config. In addition to the `inputs` section,
which we'll still use to set the `csv_path` input, we now have a `config` section, where we can set
values defined in the `config` argument to <PyObject module="dagster" object="solid"
displayText="@solid" />.

```YAML literalinclude caption=config_env_bad.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/config_env_bad.yaml
```

Of course, this config won't give us the results we're expecting. The values in `cereal.csv` are
comma-separated, not semicolon-separated, as they might be if this were a CSV from Europe, where
commas are frequently used in place of the decimal point.

We'll see later how we can use Dagster's facilities for automatic data quality checks to guard
against semantic issues like this, which won't be caught by the type system.

<br />

## Multiple and Conditional Outputs

Solids can have arbitrarily many outputs, and downstream solids can depend on any number of these.

What's more, solids can have outputs that are optional and don't have to be yielded, which lets us
write pipelines where some solids conditionally execute based on the presence of an upstream output.

Suppose we're interested in splitting hot and cold cereals into separate datasets and processing
them separately, based on config.

```python literalinclude showLines caption=multiple_outputs.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/multiple_outputs.py
startAfter:start_split_cereals
endBefore:end_split_cereals
```

Solids that yield multiple outputs must declare, and name, their outputs (passing `output_defs` to
the <PyObject module="dagster" object="solid" displayText="@solid" /> decorator). Output names must
be unique and each <PyObject module="dagster" object="Output" /> yielded by a solid's compute
function must have a name that corresponds to one of these declared outputs.

We'll define two downstream solids and hook them up to the multiple outputs from `split_cereals`.

```python literalinclude showLines caption=multiple_outputs.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/multiple_outputs.py
startAfter:# start-sort-and-pipeline
endBefore:# end-sort-and-pipeline
```

As usual, we can visualize this in Dagit:

![multiple_outputs.png](/assets/images/tutorial/multiple_outputs.png)

Notice that the logical DAG corresponding to the pipeline definition includes both dependencies --
we won't know about the conditionality in the pipeline until runtime, when `split_cereal` might not
yield both of the outputs.

![multiple_outputs_zoom.png](/assets/images/tutorial/multiple_outputs_zoom.png)

Zooming in, Dagit shows us the details of the multiple outputs from `split_cereals` and their
downstream dependencies, `hot_cereals` and `cold_cereals` .

When we execute this pipeline with the following config, we'll see that the cold cereals output is
omitted and that the execution step corresponding to the downstream solid is marked skipped in the
execution pane:

```YAML literalinclude showLines caption=multiple_outputs.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/multiple_outputs.yaml
```

![conditional_outputs.png](/assets/images/tutorial/conditional_outputs.png)

<br />

<br />

Commit message:

Revised the section of Parametrizing Solid with Config in Docs: Create a new test for config.py; fix import error; update config_env.yaml; fix formatting error

docs/next/src/pages/tutorial/basics_solids.mdx, after:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';
import { CodeReferenceLink } from 'components/CodeReference';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Basics of Solids | Dagster"
  description="The core abstraction of Dagster is the solid, a functional unit of computation.
  Here's a guide to define a solid."
/>

import AnchorHeading from 'components/AnchorHeading';
import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';

# Basics of Solids

<CodeReferenceLink filePath="examples/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/" />

## Parametrizing Solids with Inputs

So far, we've only seen solids whose behavior is the same every time they're run:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=7 emphasize-lines=4 caption=hello_cereal.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e01_first_pipeline/hello_cereal.py
lines:7-20
```

In general, though, rather than relying on hardcoded values like `dataset_path`, we'd like to be
able to parametrize our solid logic. Appropriately parameterized solids are more testable and
reusable. Consider the following more generic solid:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=7 caption=inputs.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/inputs.py
lines:8-15
```

Here, rather than hard-coding the value of `dataset_path`, we use an input, `csv_path`. It's easy to
see why this is better. We can reuse the same solid in all the different places we might need to
read in a CSV from a filepath. We can test the solid by pointing it at some known test CSV file. And
we can use the output of another upstream solid to determine which file to load.

Let's rebuild a pipeline we've seen before, but this time using our newly parameterized solid.

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=2 emphasize-lines=38 caption=inputs.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/inputs.py
startAfter:start_inputs_marker_0
endBefore:end_inputs_marker_0
```

<br />

## Specifying Config for Pipeline Execution

As you can see above, what's missing from this setup is a way to specify the `csv_path` input to our
new `read_csv` solid in the absence of any upstream solids whose outputs we can rely on. Dagster
provides the ability to stub inputs to solids that aren't satisfied by the pipeline topology as part
of its flexible configuration facility.

We can specify config for a pipeline execution regardless of which modality we use to execute the
pipeline — the Python API, the Dagit GUI, or the command line:

<details className="markdown">
  <summary>Specifying config in the Python API</summary>

<br />

We previously encountered the <PyObject module="dagster" object="execute_pipeline"
displayText="execute_pipeline()" />function. Pipeline run config is specified by the second
argument to this function, which must be a dict.

This dict contains all of the user-provided configuration with which to execute a pipeline. As such,
it can have [a lot of sections](/_apidocs/execution), but we'll only use one of
them here: per-solid configuration, which is specified under the key `solids`:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=46 caption=inputs.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/inputs.py
startAfter:start_inputs_marker_1
endBefore:end_inputs_marker_1
dedent:4
```

The `solids` dict is keyed by solid name, and each solid is configured by a dict that may itself
have several sections. In this case we are only interested in the `inputs` section, so that we can
specify the value of the input `csv_path`.

Now you can pass this run config to <PyObject module="dagster" object="execute_pipeline"
displayText="execute_pipeline()" />:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=53 caption=inputs.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/inputs.py
startAfter:start_inputs_marker_2
endBefore:end_inputs_marker_2
dedent:4
```

</details>

<details className="markdown">
  <summary>Specifying config using YAML fragments and the Dagster CLI</summary>

<br />

When executing pipelines with the Dagster CLI, we'll need to provide the run config in a file. We
use YAML for the file-based representation of configuration, but the values are the same as before:

```YAML literalinclude showLines caption=inputs_env.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/inputs_env.yaml
```

We can pass config files in this format to the Dagster CLI tool with the `-c` flag.

```bash
dagster pipeline execute -f inputs.py -c inputs_env.yaml
```

In practice, you might have different sections of your run config in different yaml files&mdash;if,
for instance, some sections change more often (e.g. in test and prod) while other are more static.
In this case, you can set multiple instances of the `-c` flag on CLI invocations, and the CLI tools
will assemble the YAML fragments into a single run config.

</details>

<details className="markdown">
  <summary>Using the Dagit config editor</summary>

<br />

Dagit provides a powerful, schema-aware, typeahead-enabled config editor to enable rapid
experimentation with and debugging of parameterized pipeline executions. As always, run:

```bash
dagit -f inputs.py
```

Notice that no execution plan appears in the bottom pane of the Playground.

![inputs_figure_one.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_one.png)

Because Dagit is schema-aware, it knows that this pipeline now requires configuration in order to
run without errors. In this case, since the pipeline is relatively trivial, it wouldn't be
especially costly to run the pipeline and watch it fail. But when pipelines are complex and slow,
it's invaluable to get this kind of feedback up front rather than have an unexpected failure deep
inside a pipeline.

Recall that the execution plan, which you will ordinarily see above the log viewer in the
**Execute** tab, is the concrete pipeline that Dagster will actually execute. Without a valid
config, Dagster can't construct a parametrization of the logical pipeline&mdash;so no execution plan
is available for us to preview.

Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Space</kbd> in order to bring up the typeahead assistant.

![inputs_figure_two.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_two.png)

Here you can see all of the sections available in the run config. Don't worry, we'll get to them all
later.

Let's enter the config we need in order to execute our pipeline.

![inputs_figure_three.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_three.png)

Note that as you type and edit the config, the config minimap hovering on the right side of the
editor pane changes to provide context&mdash;you always know where in the nested config schema
you are while making changes.

</details>

<br />

## Parametrizing Solids with Config

Solids often depend in predictable ways on features of the external world or the pipeline in which
they're invoked. For example, consider an extended version of our CSV-reading solid that implements
more of the options available in the underlying Python API:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=8 emphasize-lines=9-15 caption=config_bad_1.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/config_bad_1.py
startAfter:start_config_bad_1_marker_0
endBefore:end_config_bad_1_marker_0
```

We obviously don't want to have to write a separate solid for each permutation of these parameters
that we use in our pipelines&mdash;especially because, in more realistic cases like configuring a
Spark job or even parametrizing the `read_csv` function from a popular package like
[Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.read_csv.html#pandas.read_csv),
we might have dozens or hundreds of parameters like these.

But hoisting all of these parameters into the signature of the solid function as inputs isn't the
right answer either:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=8 emphasize-lines=5-11 caption=config_bad_2.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/config_bad_2.py
startAfter:start_config_bad_2_marker_0
endBefore:end_config_bad_2_marker_0
```

Defaults are often sufficient for configuration values like these, and sets of parameters are often
reusable. Moreover, it's unlikely that values like this will be provided dynamically by the outputs
of other solids in a pipeline.

Inputs, on the other hand, will usually be provided by the outputs of other solids in a pipeline,
even though we might sometimes want to stub them using the config facility.

For all these reasons, it's bad practice to mix configuration values like these with true input
values.

The solution is to define a config schema for our solid:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=2 emphasize-lines=17,35-43,90 caption=config.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/config.py
startAfter:start_config_marker_0
endBefore:end_config_marker_0
```

First, we pass the `config` argument to the <PyObject module="dagster" object="solid" displayText="@solid" /> decorator.
This tells Dagster to give our solid a config field structured as a dictionary. The values of the dictionary are
instances of <PyObject module="dagster" object="Field" />.

Then, we define one of these fields, `escapechar`, to be a string, setting a default value, making
it optional, and setting a human-readable description.

Finally, inside the body of the solid function, we access the config value set by the user using the
`solid_config` field on the familiar <PyObject module="dagster"
object="SystemComputeExecutionContext" displayText="context" /> object.

We can also pass a `config` argument to next <PyObject module="dagster" object="solid"
displayText="@solid" /> `sort_by_calories`.

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=43 emphasize-lines=5  caption=config.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/config.py
lines:43-67
```

Let's run config with `"calories": 130` like following and see how all of these look in Dagit:

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=76  caption=config.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/config.py
lines:76-81
```

As usual, run:

```bash
dagit -f config.py
```

![config_figure_one.png](/assets/images/tutorial/config_figure_one.png)

Dagit provides a fully type-aware and schema-aware config editing environment with a typeahead.
The human-readable descriptions of `delimiter` and `escapechar` we provided on our config fields
appear in the config section on the right when we click into the `read_csv` solid definition.

![config_figure_two.png](/assets/images/tutorial/config_figure_two.png)

Our `inputs_pipeline` run successfully with the config schemas we defined for our solids.

<br />

## Multiple and Conditional Outputs

Solids can have arbitrarily many outputs, and downstream solids can depend on any number of these.

What's more, solids can have outputs that are optional and don't have to be yielded, which lets us
write pipelines where some solids conditionally execute based on the presence of an upstream output.

Suppose we're interested in splitting hot and cold cereals into separate datasets and processing
them separately, based on config.

```python literalinclude showLines caption=multiple_outputs.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/multiple_outputs.py
startAfter:start_split_cereals
endBefore:end_split_cereals
```

Solids that yield multiple outputs must declare, and name, their outputs (passing `output_defs` to
the <PyObject module="dagster" object="solid" displayText="@solid" /> decorator). Output names must
be unique and each <PyObject module="dagster" object="Output" /> yielded by a solid's compute
function must have a name that corresponds to one of these declared outputs.

We'll define two downstream solids and hook them up to the multiple outputs from `split_cereals`.

```python literalinclude showLines caption=multiple_outputs.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/multiple_outputs.py
startAfter:# start-sort-and-pipeline
endBefore:# end-sort-and-pipeline
```

As usual, we can visualize this in Dagit:

![multiple_outputs.png](/assets/images/tutorial/multiple_outputs.png)

Notice that the logical DAG corresponding to the pipeline definition includes both dependencies --
we won't know about the conditionality in the pipeline until runtime, when `split_cereal` might not
yield both of the outputs.

![multiple_outputs_zoom.png](/assets/images/tutorial/multiple_outputs_zoom.png)

Zooming in, Dagit shows us the details of the multiple outputs from `split_cereals` and their
downstream dependencies, `hot_cereals` and `cold_cereals` .

When we execute this pipeline with the following config, we'll see that the cold cereals output is
omitted and that the execution step corresponding to the downstream solid is marked skipped in the
execution pane:

```YAML literalinclude showLines caption=multiple_outputs.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e02_solids/multiple_outputs.yaml
```

![conditional_outputs.png](/assets/images/tutorial/conditional_outputs.png)

<br />

<br />
