docs/next/src/pages/tutorial/setup.mdx, before:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Setup for the Tutorial | Dagster"
  description="Here's a Dagster setup guide before the tutorial."
/>

import AnchorHeading from 'components/AnchorHeading';

# Setup for the Tutorial

## Python and pip

We’ll assume that you have some familiarity with Python, but you should be able to follow along even
if you’re coming from a different programming language. To check that Python and the pip package
manager are already installed in your environment or install them, you can follow the instructions
[here](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/).

## Dagster and Dagit

```bash
pip install dagster dagit
```

This installs two modules:

- **Dagster**: the core programming model and abstraction stack; stateless, single-node,
  single-process and multi-process execution engines; and a CLI tool for driving those engines.
- **Dagit**: the UI for developing and operating Dagster pipelines, including a DAG browser, a
  type-aware config editor, and a live execution interface.

## Quick Start

Let's get your first Dagster code running.

```python
from dagster import execute_pipeline, pipeline, solid


@solid
def get_name(_):
    return 'dagster'


@solid
def hello(context, name: str):
    context.log.info('Hello, {name}!'.format(name=name))


@pipeline
def hello_pipeline():
    hello(get_name())
```

Save the code above in a file named `hello_dagster.py`. You can execute the pipeline using any one
of the following methods:

**(1) Dagster Python API**

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
    execute_pipeline(hello_pipeline)   # Hello, dagster!
```

**(2) Dagster CLI**

```bash
dagster pipeline execute -f hello_dagster.py
```

**(3) Dagit web UI**

```bash
dagit -f hello_dagster.py
```

And then navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to start using Dagit.

## If You Get Stuck

If you have questions on getting started, we'd love to hear from you:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://dagster-slackin.herokuapp.com/" target="_blank">
    <img
      src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/609349/63558739-f60a7e00-c502-11e9-8434-c8a95b03ce62.png"
      width="160px"
    />
  </a>
</p>

<br />

Commit message:

Add dagit launch instructionsns to setup page
Summary: Somebody in #general thought that the instructions here to navigate to localhost applied to all 3 steps, not just the Dagit step. Since this is the very top of our funnel probably worth making sure it's super-clear. Clarify that it only applies to step 3 and add instructions for how execute the pipeline once you start up dagit.

Test Plan: View doc page

Reviewers: sandyryza, yuhan

Differential Revision: https://dagster.phacility.com/D4309

docs/next/src/pages/tutorial/setup.mdx, after:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Setup for the Tutorial | Dagster"
  description="Here's a Dagster setup guide before the tutorial."
/>

import AnchorHeading from 'components/AnchorHeading';

# Setup for the Tutorial

## Python and pip

We’ll assume that you have some familiarity with Python, but you should be able to follow along even
if you’re coming from a different programming language. To check that Python and the pip package
manager are already installed in your environment or install them, you can follow the instructions
[here](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/).

## Dagster and Dagit

```bash
pip install dagster dagit
```

This installs two modules:

- **Dagster**: the core programming model and abstraction stack; stateless, single-node,
  single-process and multi-process execution engines; and a CLI tool for driving those engines.
- **Dagit**: the UI for developing and operating Dagster pipelines, including a DAG browser, a
  type-aware config editor, and a live execution interface.

## Quick Start

Let's get your first Dagster code running.

```python
from dagster import execute_pipeline, pipeline, solid


@solid
def get_name(_):
    return 'dagster'


@solid
def hello(context, name: str):
    context.log.info('Hello, {name}!'.format(name=name))


@pipeline
def hello_pipeline():
    hello(get_name())
```

Save the code above in a file named `hello_dagster.py`. You can execute the pipeline using any one
of the following methods:

**(1) Dagster Python API**

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
    execute_pipeline(hello_pipeline)   # Hello, dagster!
```

**(2) Dagster CLI**

```bash
dagster pipeline execute -f hello_dagster.py
```

**(3) Dagit web UI**

Run the following command, then navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to start
using Dagit. Click on the "Playground" tab, then press the "Launch Execution" button to execute the
pipeline.

```bash
dagit -f hello_dagster.py
```

## If You Get Stuck

If you have questions on getting started, we'd love to hear from you:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://dagster-slackin.herokuapp.com/" target="_blank">
    <img
      src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/609349/63558739-f60a7e00-c502-11e9-8434-c8a95b03ce62.png"
      width="160px"
    />
  </a>
</p>

<br />
