docs/next/src/pages/tutorial/testable.mdx, before:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';
import { CodeReferenceLink } from 'components/CodeReference';
import AnchorHeading from 'components/AnchorHeading';
import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Making Your Pipelines Testable and Maintainable | Dagster"
  description="Dagster enables you to build testable and maintainable data applications."
/>

# Making Your Pipelines Testable and Maintainable

<CodeReferenceLink filePath="examples/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e04_quality/" />

Data applications are notoriously difficult to test and are therefore typically un- or under-tested.
Besides, pipeline authors generally do not have control over their input data, which means that even
if data pipelines are covered by sophisticated tests, pipeline breakage could still happen.

Creating testable and verifiable data applications is one of the focuses of Dagster. We believe
ensuring data quality is critical for managing the complexity of data systems. This section will
talk about how you can build maintainable and testable data applications with Dagster.

## Testing solids and pipelines

Let's go back to our first solid and pipeline in [`hello_cereal.py`](#execute-our-first-pipeline)
and ensure they're working as expected by writing some tests. We'll use <PyObject module="dagster" object="execute_pipeline" displayText="execute_pipeline()" />
to test our pipeline, as well as <PyObject module="dagster" object="execute_solid" displayText="execute_solid()" />
to test our solid in isolation.

These functions synchronously execute a pipeline or solid and return results objects (<PyObject
module="dagster" object="SolidExecutionResult" /> and <PyObject module="dagster"
object="PipelineExecutionResult" />) whose methods let us investigate, in detail, the success or
failure of execution, the outputs produced by solids, and (as we'll see later) other events
associated with execution.

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=32 caption=hello_cereal.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e04_quality/hello_cereal_with_tests.py
lines:32-43
```

Now you can use pytest, or your test runner of choice, to run unit tests as you develop your data
applications.

```bash
pytest hello_cereal_with_tests.py
```

**Note:** by convention, pytest tests are typically kept in separate files prefixed with `test_`.
We've put them in the same file just to simplify the tutorial code.

Obviously, in production we'll often execute pipelines in a parallel, streaming way that doesn't
admit this kind of API, which is intended to enable local tests like this.

Dagster is written to make testing easy in a domain where it has historically been very difficult.
Throughout the rest of this tutorial, we'll explore the writing of unit tests for each piece of the
framework as we learn about it. You can learn more about Testing in Dagster by reading [Testing
Example](/examples/pipeline_unittesting).

<br />

## Type-checking Inputs with Python Type Annotations

**Note:** _this section requires Python 3._

If you zoom in on the **Definition** tab in Dagit and click on one of our pipeline solids, you'll
see that its inputs and outputs are annotated with types.

![inputs_figure_four.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_four.png)

By default, every untyped value in Dagster is assigned the catch-all type <PyObject module="dagster" object="Any" />.
This means that any errors in the config won't be surfaced until the pipeline
is executed.

For example, when we execute our pipeline with this config, it'll fail at runtime:

```YAML literalinclude caption=inputs_env_bad.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e04_quality/inputs_env_bad.yaml
```

When we enter this mistyped config in Dagit and execute our pipeline, we'll see that an error
appears in the structured log viewer:

![inputs_figure_five.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_five.png)

Click on "View Full Message" or on the red dot on the execution step that failed and a detailed
stack trace will pop up.

![inputs_figure_six.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_six.png)

It would be better if we could catch this error earlier, when we specify the config. So let's make
the inputs typed.

A user can apply types to inputs and outputs using Python 3's type annotation syntax. In this case,
we just want to type the input as the built-in `str`.

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=7 emphasize-lines=2 caption=inputs_typed.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e04_quality/inputs_typed.py
lines:7-15
```

By using typed input, we can catch this error prior to execution, and reduce the surface area
we need to test.

![inputs_figure_seven.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_seven.png)

<br />

Commit message:

Modify Making Your Pipelines Testable in Docs
Summary:
Replace custom_types_figure_one image to highlight SimpleDataFrame

Remind the user of add config to launch execution and update ERROR message for running custom_types_2.py

Update the error message img in Type-checking Inputs with Python Type Annotations and remind the user where to add config in Dagit

Test Plan: Testing Changing tutorial

Differential Revision: https://dagster.phacility.com/D4619

docs/next/src/pages/tutorial/testable.mdx, after:

import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';
import { CodeReferenceLink } from 'components/CodeReference';
import AnchorHeading from 'components/AnchorHeading';
import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Making Your Pipelines Testable and Maintainable | Dagster"
  description="Dagster enables you to build testable and maintainable data applications."
/>

# Making Your Pipelines Testable and Maintainable

<CodeReferenceLink filePath="examples/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e04_quality/" />

Data applications are notoriously difficult to test and are therefore typically un- or under-tested.
Besides, pipeline authors generally do not have control over their input data, which means that even
if data pipelines are covered by sophisticated tests, pipeline breakage could still happen.

Creating testable and verifiable data applications is one of the focuses of Dagster. We believe
ensuring data quality is critical for managing the complexity of data systems. This section will
talk about how you can build maintainable and testable data applications with Dagster.

## Testing solids and pipelines

Let's go back to our first solid and pipeline in [`hello_cereal.py`](#execute-our-first-pipeline)
and ensure they're working as expected by writing some tests. We'll use <PyObject module="dagster" object="execute_pipeline" displayText="execute_pipeline()" />
to test our pipeline, as well as <PyObject module="dagster" object="execute_solid" displayText="execute_solid()" />
to test our solid in isolation.

These functions synchronously execute a pipeline or solid and return results objects (<PyObject
module="dagster" object="SolidExecutionResult" /> and <PyObject module="dagster"
object="PipelineExecutionResult" />) whose methods let us investigate, in detail, the success or
failure of execution, the outputs produced by solids, and (as we'll see later) other events
associated with execution.

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=32 caption=hello_cereal.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e04_quality/hello_cereal_with_tests.py
lines:32-43
```

Now you can use pytest, or your test runner of choice, to run unit tests as you develop your data
applications.

```bash
pytest hello_cereal_with_tests.py
```

**Note:** by convention, pytest tests are typically kept in separate files prefixed with `test_`.
We've put them in the same file just to simplify the tutorial code.

Obviously, in production we'll often execute pipelines in a parallel, streaming way that doesn't
admit this kind of API, which is intended to enable local tests like this.

Dagster is written to make testing easy in a domain where it has historically been very difficult.
Throughout the rest of this tutorial, we'll explore the writing of unit tests for each piece of the
framework as we learn about it. You can learn more about Testing in Dagster by reading [Testing
Example](/examples/pipeline_unittesting).

<br />

## Type-checking Inputs with Python Type Annotations

**Note:** _this section requires Python 3._

If you zoom in on the **Definition** tab in Dagit and click on one of our pipeline solids, you'll
see that its inputs and outputs are annotated with types.

![inputs_figure_four.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_four.png)

By default, every untyped value in Dagster is assigned the catch-all type <PyObject module="dagster" object="Any" />.
This means that any errors in the config won't be surfaced until the pipeline
is executed.

For example, when we execute our pipeline with this config (you can add it to Dagit Playground and launch execution), it'll fail at runtime:

```YAML literalinclude caption=inputs_env_bad.yaml
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e04_quality/inputs_env_bad.yaml
```

When we enter this mistyped config in Dagit and execute our pipeline, we'll see that an error
appears in the structured log viewer:

![inputs_figure_five.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_five.png)

Click on "View Full Message" or on the red dot on the execution step that failed and a detailed
stack trace will pop up.

![inputs_figure_six.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_figure_six.png)

It would be better if we could catch this error earlier, when we specify the config. So let's make
the inputs typed.

A user can apply types to inputs and outputs using Python 3's type annotation syntax. In this case,
we just want to type the input as the built-in `str`.

```python literalinclude showLines startLine=7 emphasize-lines=2 caption=inputs_typed.py
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/e04_quality/inputs_typed.py
lines:7-15
```

By using typed input, we can catch this error prior to execution, and reduce the surface area
we need to test.

![inputs_typed_error_message.png](/assets/images/tutorial/inputs_typed_error_message.png)

<br />
