docs/next/src/pages/overview/configuration/index.mdx, before:

import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';
import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Configuration | Dagster"
  description="Several dimensions of pipeline execution can be determined at execution time through configuration.
  Dagster call this set of chosen values run config."
/>

# Configuration

## Run Config

Several dimensions of pipeline execution can be determined at execution time through configuration.
We call this set of chosen values **run config**. The run config is passed as a dictionary in the python api
or as a yaml document when using `dagit` or the CLI. The following top level keys in the run config allow you to
configure different aspects:

- **execution**: Determine and configure the <PyObject module="dagster" object="Executor" /> to be used to control
  execution of the pipeline.

- **storage**: Determine and configure the <PyObject module="dagster" object="SystemStorageDefinition" /> to be
  used to control how data is persisted as it is handed off from solid to solid.

- **loggers** : Determine and configure the <PyObject module="dagster" object="LoggerDefinition" /> to be
  used when logging.

- **solids** : Configure solids that belong to the pipeline. In addition to providing values for solid specific configuration,
  inputs may also be configured here, when dependencies on upstream solids outputs have not been set in the pipeline.

- **resources** : Configure resources that belong to the pipeline that have defined configuration schema.

## Configuration Schema

The Dagster library includes a system for defining the schema that configuration values must abide by.
The most common objects to specify <PyObject module="dagster" object="ConfigSchema" /> for
are <PyObject module="dagster" object="SolidDefinition" /> and <PyObject module="dagster" object="ResourceDefinition" />.

The following example shows how **config_schema** can be used on a solid to control its behavior:

```python literalinclude
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/configuration/example.py
```

## Configured

In many cases, the option to configure an entity at runtime is more distracting than helpful, and
it's preferable to supply the entity's configuration at definition time.

The `configured` API offers a way to do this. When invoked on a <PyObject module="dagster" object="ResourceDefinition" />, <PyObject module="dagster" object="ExecutorDefinition" />, <PyObject module="dagster" object="SolidDefinition" />, <PyObject module="dagster" object="CompositeSolidDefinition" />, <PyObject module="dagster" object="LoggerDefinition" />, <PyObject module="dagster" object="IntermediateStorageDefinition" />, or <PyObject module="dagster" object="SystemStorageDefinition" />,
it returns an interchangeable object with the given configuration "baked in".

```python literalinclude
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/configuration/configured_example.py
```

In other cases, it's useful to partially fill out configuration at definition time and leave other
configuration for runtime. For these cases, `configured` can be used as a decorator, accepting a
function that translates from runtime config to config that satisfies the entity's config schema.
It returns an entity with the "outer" config schema as its schema.

```python literalinclude
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/configuration/config_map_example.py
```

The `configured` API can be used with any definition type in the same way. To configure a solid, for
example, simply invoke `configured` on the solid definition:

```python literalinclude
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/configuration/configured_solid_example.py
```

When using the decorator syntax (`@configured`), the resulting solid definition will inherit the
name of the function being decorated (like `another_configured_example` in the above example). When
configuring a solid completely with a config dictionary rather than with a function (as with
`configured_example`), you must add a keyword argument `name` in the call to `configured`.
When naming solids, remember that solid definitions must have unique names within a repository or
pipeline.

```python literalinclude
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/configuration/configured_named_solid_example.py
lines:1-39
```

Commit message:

[docs] config overview improvements
Summary:

Test Plan: eyes

Reviewers: sashank

Subscribers:

docs/next/src/pages/overview/configuration/index.mdx, after:

import PyObject from 'components/PyObject';
import { DynamicMetaTags } from 'components/MetaTags';

<DynamicMetaTags
  title="Configuration | Dagster"
  description="Several dimensions of pipeline execution can be determined at execution time through configuration.
  Dagster call this set of chosen values run config."
/>

# Configuration

## Run Config

Several dimensions of pipeline execution can be determined at execution time through configuration.
We call this set of chosen values **run config**. The run config is passed as a dictionary in the python api
or as a yaml document when using `dagit` or the CLI. The following top level keys in the run config allow you to
configure different aspects:

- **execution**: Determine and configure the <PyObject module="dagster" object="Executor" /> to be used to control
  execution of the pipeline.

- **storage**: Determine and configure the <PyObject module="dagster" object="SystemStorageDefinition" /> to be
  used to control how data is persisted as it is handed off from solid to solid.

- **loggers** : Determine and configure the <PyObject module="dagster" object="LoggerDefinition" /> to be
  used when logging.

- **solids** : Configure solids that belong to the pipeline. In addition to providing values for solid specific configuration,
  inputs may also be configured here, when dependencies on upstream solids outputs have not been set in the pipeline.

- **resources** : Configure resources that belong to the pipeline that have defined configuration schema.

## Configuration Schema

The Dagster library includes a system for defining the schema that configuration values must abide by.
The most common objects to specify <PyObject module="dagster" object="ConfigSchema" /> for
are <PyObject module="dagster" object="SolidDefinition" /> and <PyObject module="dagster" object="ResourceDefinition" />.

The following simple example shows how **config_schema** can be used on a solid to control its behavior:

```python literalinclude
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/configuration/example.py
```

While the example above uses simple scalar config values, the config system supports strucutred types allowing for
complex configuration. One notable example is <PyObject module="dagster" object="Selector" /> which is used
extensively within dagster to choose an option from a well defined set and provide additional configuration for it.

You can see the full list of supported types in the <PyObject module="dagster" object="ConfigSchema" /> API docs.

## Configured

In many cases, the option to configure an entity at runtime is more distracting than helpful, and
it's preferable to supply the entity's configuration at definition time.

The `configured` API offers a way to do this. When invoked on a <PyObject module="dagster" object="ResourceDefinition" />, <PyObject module="dagster" object="ExecutorDefinition" />, <PyObject module="dagster" object="SolidDefinition" />, <PyObject module="dagster" object="CompositeSolidDefinition" />, <PyObject module="dagster" object="LoggerDefinition" />, <PyObject module="dagster" object="IntermediateStorageDefinition" />, or <PyObject module="dagster" object="SystemStorageDefinition" />,
it returns an interchangeable object with the given configuration "baked in".

```python literalinclude
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/configuration/configured_example.py
```

In other cases, it's useful to partially fill out configuration at definition time and leave other
configuration for runtime. For these cases, `configured` can be used as a decorator, accepting a
function that translates from runtime config to config that satisfies the entity's config schema.
It returns an entity with the "outer" config schema as its schema.

```python literalinclude
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/configuration/config_map_example.py
```

The `configured` API can be used with any definition type in the same way. To configure a solid, for
example, simply invoke `configured` on the solid definition:

```python literalinclude
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/configuration/configured_solid_example.py
```

When using the decorator syntax (`@configured`), the resulting solid definition will inherit the
name of the function being decorated (like `another_configured_example` in the above example). When
configuring a solid completely with a config dictionary rather than with a function (as with
`configured_example`), you must add a keyword argument `name` in the call to `configured`.
When naming solids, remember that solid definitions must have unique names within a repository or
pipeline.

```python literalinclude
file:/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/overview/configuration/configured_named_solid_example.py
lines:1-39
```
